
            Translator’s Preface
In the name of God, the Most Beneficent, the Most Merciful All praise belongs to God, Lord of all the worlds. It is a manifestation of his infinite mercy and beneficence that he bestowed upon this weak and worthless slave the honour of translating this book to spread his message.
“God Speaks” is in your hands. Thank you for choosing it. Hopefully, it will
impact and change your life in so many ways, God willing.
In Abu Yahya’s words, “Khuda Bol Raha Hai”, titled “God Speaks” in English,
is his favourite work. Having gone through it, I can vouch for it as well. I
have no hesitation in admitting that while translating, I wept at places,
overcome by emotions and at the vagaries of this temporary world.
The topic of “God Speaks” is supremely important and a crying need of the
hour. What level of negligence and ignorance hinders us from making the
glorious Quran the only guide map to lead successful lives herein and
hereafter? What is there that we do not understand? Why have we kept it
aside and wandered in the deserts and oceans of ignorance, seeking help
from the lost and guidance from the misguided?
It is a question that should puzzle all sane minds. Why does it not? Not only
do we have God talking to us and guiding us to the path of success in no
uncertain terms, but also what God tells us has been put into practice and
demonstrated in the shape of a practical guide by the last Messenger and
our Holy Prophet, Muhammad Mustafa PBUH as his Sunnah, or Traditions.
Yet, even after receiving such clear guidance from God himself and his last
Messenger, if we still do not follow this most straightforward way to the
right path, all that can be said about us is that we are deaf, dumb and blind.
Translation of faith-based literature is not a forum to impress readers with
penmanship or vocabulary. It is to convey the author’s message as precisely
as possible. The key to effectively conveying that message is using simple
and easily understandable language. With that in mind, I have tried to use
simple language, having a natural flow, so the readers receive the message
2 www.inzaar.org
and enjoy reading it without using a dictionary. I hope simplifying the
language, eliminating unnecessary expressions and superfluous words
have improved the flow and readability of the translated text.
“God Speaks” translation was challenging for two reasons:
1. To come up with an acceptable English adaptation of an Urdu script, one
must forget about literal, word for word translation and try to capture the
gist and spirit of the original work. I am using the word ‘adaptation’
cautiously and after due deliberation, as it is the only way to translate an
acceptable work without losing the message. In addition, several words
and expressions of Arabic and Urdu cannot be accurately translated into a
single English word. To overcome that lacuna, I have translated them with
a combination of English words that, when combined, better represent the
spirit of the originally used word.
2. Exact text translation becomes critical when it involves chapters, verses
and references from the Holy Quran. To keep English translation close to
the Urdu text, I have used three contemporary English translations of the
Glorious Quran, i.e., Mufti Taqi Usmani, Mustafa Khattab, and MAS Abdul
Haleem. As a precaution, I have not used my own words to keep the English
translation of the Quranic text authentic and accurate.
I am grateful to Abu Yahya for placing his confidence in my meagre and
flawed abilities and choosing me to translate this book. In closing, I pray
that our Lord and Master, God Almighty, bestow upon us the wisdom to
prepare for the Day of Judgement and base our lives on faith and good
deeds as required by the Glorious Quran. Aameen.
Abu Masroor
abumasroor01@gmail.com
01 Ramadan, 1443 AH
April 02, 2022
3 www.inzaar.org
Preface
God Speaks
I seek Allah’s refuge from the accursed Satan.
In the name of God, the Beneficent, the Merciful.
Just like a person love’s all his children, but some may be dearer to
him than the others, an author also likes some of his writings more
than his other works. If that analogy is appropriate, I present “God
Speaks” to my readers, a novel that is, in my humble opinion, most
effective due to its message and also an interesting read as a novel. It
is not only my opinion but also of those who went through its draft
for feedback and screening. Therefore, I hope the readers will find it
even more useful and interesting than my previous writings.
I am not a professional novelist who must write for his living. My first
novel, “Jub Zindagi Shuru Ho Gee (When Life begins)”, came into
being accidentally. The two novels that followed, “Qasam Uss Waqt
Kee (By That Time)” and “Akhri Jung (The Last War)”, appeared in
the next five years, and only when an inner voice decided to express
itself. “God Speaks” is also the expression of that inner voice.
However, I will have to provide the background of the message of
that inner voice here.
This world's entire cycle of life depends on the rain that falls from
the sky, wets the parched lips of inhabitants and quenches the earth’s
thirst. However, the shower of blessings from the sky does not
benefit humanity with rain only. It has also been bringing revelations
of God Almighty through various eras. Such a shower of blessings
rained on the desert of Arabia last, and the springs of guidance
emanating from there have benefitted the entire world.
Luckily, that shower of God’s blessings, eternally preserved in the
4 www.inzaar.org
form of the glorious Quran, has been gifted to humanity. The glorious
Quran is not the name of the holy book of Muslims. In reality, it is the
dialogue of God. In the shape of the Quran, God is speaking to us. It is
the invitation of the last Prophet and Messenger of God, Muhammad
PBUH, an invitation that is fully alive and well even today and will
remain so forever.
However, it is quite strange that Muslims, the recipients and
custodians of the glorious Quran, are generally quite distanced from
it even after accepting its truth. Most don’t read it, those who read,
don’t understand it, and those who understand it are unwilling to
consider it important enough to invite and introduce others to its
real message of faith and morality. In simplest words, this invitation
of calling others to it is the name of the reality that one day
everybody has to account for his deeds in front of God Almighty. On
that day, those whose deeds are as per God’s requirements as
prescribed in the Quran will be rewarded with eternal, never-ending
kingship, while those who ignore them will end up in Hell.
Whatever attitude Muslims may have towards the Quran, its position
will never change. Immediately after death, everybody will come to
know that whatever the glorious Quran says is correct to the last
word. What it termed as the real problem turned out to be so. What
it declared unimportant was genuinely unimportant. Whatever
weight it gave to an issue in terms of importance proved to be correct
to the last milligram.
Quran called humanity towards the one and only God. On Doomsday,
people will see with their own eyes that nobody had any power or
authority over anything in the world, nor will anyone have it on that
fateful day. He had called everybody towards the blessings of
Paradise, and people will see that other than Paradise, there is no
safety and blessing anywhere else. He had warned of the wrath of
Hellfire, and they will see that the wrath of Hell is truly unbearable.
He had intentionally avoided and sidelined those problems of the
5 www.inzaar.org
world whose pain people were dying to avoid. On that Day of
Judgement, they will see that the same world, along with its so-called
problems, has been made eternally extinct. He had defined good
deeds comprehensively and had declared them as the guarantee for
Paradise, and everybody will see that any act other than what was
defined does not carry any weight on God’s scales. On that day,
everybody will come to know that each and every word of the Quran
was true and every preference more important.
It is so because the Quran is a manifestation of God’s attribute of
speech. Every word therein has been chosen by the merciful God.
Archangel Gabriel received it from the protected tablet-divine and
most honestly placed it in the heart of the one loved most by God, the
last Prophet and Messenger of God Muhammad Mustafa PBUH. Neither
the Genie Satanic souls could touch it ever, nor the devils amongst
humans were able to change or tamper it. Falsehood couldn’t find a
way into it from its front, nor could it enter it from the back. That
guidance brought by the last Prophet and Messenger of God,
Muhammed PBUH, suffices as a representative of all the Prophets and
Messengers of God to educate and guide humanity till Doomsday.
That perception and awareness of the greatness and importance of
the glorious Quran are now being presented to the readers in the
shape of this novel. The story emanates from life in Paradise and
Abdullah, the main character of my first novel, “When Life Begins”. It
starts when Abdullah, having gone through various stages of
Doomsday, has reached Paradise. In addition, two new characters
enter the scene, and the real message of the novel has been narrated
and highlighted through their story.
The novel begins from Paradise, and its tempo has been intentionally
kept somewhat slower in the beginning. However, as soon as the
central theme emerges, the narrative becomes fast-paced and
smooth, and it will be difficult for the reader to leave the book after
that, God willing. At that point, I have presented the book's main
6 www.inzaar.org
message in such a way that, rather than looking like a forced
inclusion, it would appear as an essential part of the story.
This preliminary explanation of the book was necessary as people do
not generally take even the most essential facts seriously. In such an
environment, perhaps this storytelling may draw their attention
towards the roadmap to the treasure commonly known as the
glorious Quran. Even if a single person undertakes and completes the
journey from this novel to the Quran, my effort would have been
rewarded.
A humble servant of God Almighty,
Abu Yahya
abuyahya267@gmail.com
9 Ramadan, 1438H
04 June 2017 G
7 www.inzaar.org
hief Abdullah, may I have the honour of your company?
Abdullah looked up and saw a handsome and wellgroomed person standing in front. He was a stranger.
Abdullah did not expect anybody who knew him to be
where he was. The intent of coming to this far off place was to spend
some time by himself in God’s Paradise where nobody would know
him.
Life in Paradise had started only a few days ago. Abdullah was one of
those fortunate who had entered it much earlier as they had
surpassed others in good deeds and were rewarded with the highest
echelons of Paradise. However, other residents whose decisions had
been finalised on the Day of Judgement had also started arriving
gradually.
Paradise was a uniquely strange place. Unlike its name, it was not a
garden. Instead, it was a vast kingdom created due to the perfect and
all-encompassing power of God spanning from the earth to the skies.
The noble souls who had passed tests of faith and morality in the
previous world had now become its owners as per their levels of
accomplishment.
A part of Paradise was the kingship given to each resident as a
reward by God Almighty. Another large part was owned by other
residents. A third area, instead of being owned by anybody, was
under the management of angels and comprised of entertainment
centres and resorts where people socialised and watched
manifestations of God’s unmatched creativity and splendour.
Abdullah had come to such a place today. Ordinary residents of
Paradise could not enter here. It was a first-class place reserved for
the elite in that category only. As such, it was clear to him that the
C
8 www.inzaar.org
stranger also enjoyed that elite status. However, it was also a given
that Abdullah had not met him before as he did not remember any
such meeting at all.
After arriving in Paradise, most of Abdullah’s time was spent in the
gathering of the prophets and other such luminaries. Today, he felt
like going to a place where nobody would know him, and he would
not know anybody either. There was no dearth of such places in
Paradise. Therefore, after looking at many of them, he had selected a
scenic spot where he was sure nobody knew him. He had been here
for quite a while, enjoying the serene environment, and was about to
leave when the stranger requested him for his company. He replied
pleasantly:
“Why not? Please have a seat.”
“I apologise for having interfered in your privacy.”
The stranger replied. He wanted to add something to it, but Abdullah
intervened:
“You don’t have to apologise at all. Having enjoyed being alone, I was
about to leave.”
“I had realised that. That is why I have approached you now.
Otherwise, I was here for some time but had waited to approach you
when you were through with your solitude.”
The stranger sat next to him. Abdullah was quite surprised. He
expressed it by saying:
“But how do you know me? I have no acquaintances here.”
9 www.inzaar.org
The stranger did not reply. He just smiled.
Abdullah was somewhat perplexed. He had confidently mentioned
that there was nobody who knew him there. The reason was that he
had checked the guests' list of the day for the resort before coming
over to ensure nobody who knew him had plans to visit it. Other than
the enchanting beauty of the place, that was the other reason for
selecting it. As such, he was still bewildered at the presence of an
acquaintance here.
=============
Isra’s eyes had a joyous gleam. Her face radiated with the happiness
that she felt. However, her emotions changed from moment to
moment. At times her heart was sailed on waves of peace and bliss,
and at other times she was overwhelmed with emotions of happiness
and joy. At times she was amid a whirlpool of restlessness,
uncertainty, anxiety and thrill, and at the other, feelings of
excitement, love and devotion took over. She was going through
those conditions when she heard a question:
“You still do not believe you have arrived in Paradise?”
The question was asked by the angel who had escorted her to her
palace in Paradise.
“How to believe that?”
Isra wondered, looking at a robust plant in front whose leaves were
extraordinarily large. The leaves had probably understood the wish
in her heart. She wanted to see herself. The green leaves changed
themselves into clean mirrors in a fraction of a second. Isra could see
herself in them from every possible angle. It had not been long since
she entered Paradise, and ever since she was here, she saw such
10 www.inzaar.org
miracles every moment.
She looked at her image in the leaves that showed her entire form
from every angle.
“How can it be believed?”
Isra repeated herself, viewing her beauty from every dimension. She
could not believe how beautiful she was.
“Oh, you will believe. A lot of people are still there in the Plain of
Accountability. They are arriving one by one. When all of them come
over, the new world will become fully operative. Then you would
believe.”
When the angel spoke to put Isra at ease, she realised she had come
from a place so far and so different to where she was now. She asked
the angel:
“Has the world of the past entirely finished forever?”
“Yes, it has.”
Isra remained quiet. She was finding it hard to believe that as well.
Seeing her condition, the angel started again:
“That world has ended. Having passed through the test stage, the
millions of years old epic of humanity has entered the reward stage.
The world that seemingly would never end has ended, and the world
that seemingly did not have to come into being has been established
forever.”
The angel spoke movingly. Isra felt that he should continue to speak.
11 www.inzaar.org
“The era of Cain and all other murderers of that world is over. The
days of Pharaoh and such immoral characters are over. The eras of
Mammon and the rich who sat on their wealth like snakes have also
ended. The games of Haman and other political jugglers are now
history. The tyranny of Nimrod and all such rulers who tortured their
subjects has also come to an end.”
Some Scenes appeared as the angel spoke. Isra could fathom that
they were images of those whose names the angel was mentioning.
Cain, Pharaoh, Mammon, Haman, Nimrod and other such criminals.
The angel’s voice continued to rise:
“Every temporary earning of those criminals of the previous world
has converted into permanent punishment of this world. They don’t
have a place other than Hell. They have no hope except death and no
lament except crying and screaming. But there is no death here. Any
hope or help here? No way.
At that point, along with the angel’s voice, horrific scenes of
punishment to those criminals in Hell appeared. Isra winced and
commented quickly:
“But along with that, the era of those who feared God has also begun.”
The angel had realised that Isra did not have the heart to see those
horrible scenes. So, he stopped what he was saying and commented
on Isra’s point:
“Yes, the era of those who prayed to God without seeing him, adopted
righteousness in the hope of a Paradise unseen, were kind to fellow
human beings, lived a life being conscious of the merciful God and
based their lives on faith, mercy and sympathy has started. Every
12 www.inzaar.org
difficulty of the past world has ended just like that temporary world
has come to an end. What has survived is the never-ending reward.
Your future is the ever-lasting Paradise that will never end.
=============
The place Abdullah had come to today was a masterpiece of natural
beauty. If the previous world’s terminology were to be used, it was
an open-air restaurant on a mountain, with a different scene on all
four sides. On one side, a vast ocean shimmered, its aquamarine
water soothing the eyes of onlookers. Another side had a forest with
tall trees of different colours made all the more enchanting by the
chirping of the birds. The third side displayed a lush green plain
where a mix of beautiful animals wearing different colours roamed.
The fourth side had temporary lodgings for those residents of
Paradise who were visiting that resort and would stay for a few days.
Silence ensued for a while. Then, the stranger commented on the
environment:
“I must compliment you on your excellent taste for selecting this
place. Even though all locations of Paradise are wonderful, the
peaceful serenity of this location is perhaps an excellent gift for
someone looking for solitude and privacy.”
The stranger’s opinion was right on the dot from every angle. The
enchanting natural beauty all around and attired so captivatingly
was also cloaked in a shawl of peace and bliss. Every scene had a
different colour; even their time of the day was different. While the
morning displayed its freshness in the forest, the ocean was bathed
in the clear day’s sunlight. The lush green plain presented twilight
hours of the evening at their best, and the residential lodges, cloaked
in the darkness of the night, were covered by glittering,
13 www.inzaar.org
multicoloured lights. The sky in every scene on all sides also matched
their time perfectly. While at the residential lodges, it wore black
with milky stars embellished all over; the blue ocean was covered by
a complimenting blue sky and a fiery yellow sun shining in between.
The greenery of the plain was being enhanced by brilliant twilight
showering its fire, and in the backdrop of forest, the rising morning
sun was mischievously peeping through the tall trees. From time to
time, those scenes were made all the more alluring by raindrops that
slipped through in rainbow colours. In the background, the falling
rain played soft music for the ears of those present there.
Abdullah, having listened to the stranger, looked around and replied:
“In that case, I should also appreciate your taste in selecting this
place as you have also come here.”
“But the attraction of this place is not the reason for me being here. I
have come only to meet you. Rather, I have come here looking for
you.”
“Looking for me? But why?”
Abdullah asked. He could not fathom why the stranger was looking
for him when he didn’t even know him.
============
The angel’s voice was giving Isra good news of her admission to
Paradise, glad tidings better than anything else. She wanted the angel
to go on talking about Paradise while she listened. But then a
question arose in her mind:
“Did Doomsday occur the way God Almighty had detailed in the
14 www.inzaar.org
Quran? I was not alive then. Was it as horrific as…..?”
Isra left her question incomplete.
The truth about that could never be put into words.
The angel started replying to her question:
“The truth is that Doomsday was much more horrible than its
narration in the Quran. Whenever you want, you can see those events
exactly as if they were happening in your presence. But at that time,
the earthquake of Doomsday had obliterated all signs of life from the
earth. Death ruled supreme for a long time. Then God of the universe
ordered, and life returned in its original and perfect shape. All men
and women became alive. Every human being of every era, every
region, every colour and every race came back to life.”
The angel’s voice was crisp, and his manner of speech was attractive.
He continued:
“The angels assigned by God brought all human beings to the Plain of
Accountability. The glorious God who had kept his majestic face
behind a veil for testing humans raised it for perfect accountability
and justice. With his appearance, the court for human beings began.
The prophets who had taken the message of the true faith to their
nations, the faithful who bore their witness and stood by them in the
worst circumstances and the noble souls who led lives doing good
deeds started receiving their rewards, one by one, from the
beneficent God.”
“Yes, I saw all those stages of Doomsday with my own eyes.”
As Isra spoke, agreeing with the angel, he replied, drawing her
15 www.inzaar.org
attention towards another aspect:
“But you did not see all that happened to the criminals because, along
with the others who were declared successful, you were standing on
a different side. The non-believers who denied Doomsday, the
disobedient who rebelled against God, The arrogant who considered
themselves larger than life, the tyrants who inflicted cruelty on
themselves and others, the usurpers who snatched the rights of the
weak and the sinners, unrighteous, polytheists, murderers and
criminals who disobeyed were facing justice of the omnipotent God
one after the other.
In the dispensation of punishment and reward, even acts as small as
a mustard seed were not overlooked. Whoever left himself to wander
unfettered in the dark alleys of the heart and mind found his
wandering exposed in the presence of everybody. Whoever made
plans to destroy others when alone, found his every ill design laid
thread-bare publicly. Whoever kept his chest full of the fire of malice,
hatred and enmity of others had every filth of his inner self bared in
front of the entire humanity.”
As Isra heard that, she thanked God for saving her from that worst
situation. The angel continued with further details:
Whoever used his power, position, rank, wealth, capabilities, and
knowledge to better himself and harm others found that he could not
hurt anybody. Everyone who was assassinated came back to life. All
those who were destroyed stood rehabilitated. Every victim was
smiling. But the cruel had to face the excruciating pain of Hellfire.
Anybody who wasted his life and its blessings in rebellion and
negligence rather than in the pursuit of serving his Master saw that
his total earnings were destroyed along with the previous world, and
he had nothing to offer except his luggage of disgrace when
16 www.inzaar.org
accounted for on Doomsday. Polytheism, atheism, arrogance,
jealousy, cruelty, vulgarity, in fact, every filthy vice had become an
unbearable burden, but there was no alternative other can suffering
for it.”
On angel’s explanation, Isra nodded in agreement:
“you are so right. I benefitted from blessings and peace even in the
Plain of Accountability. I was free of every fear and worry and
protected under the shade of the Throne of God Almighty. I realised
that good deeds of the past had become an invaluable currency, and,
using them, the believers were buying eternal joys. The everlasting
grand palaces, expensive dresses, meals of all kinds, utensils made of
silver and gold, vehicles that could go on infinitely, innumerable
servants, in fact, all things that brought respect, well-being and good
taste were being bought with the currency of good deeds.”
Isra mentioned those details as she had also earned a high place in
Paradise due to her good deeds, and now this very Paradise had
become her eternal home.
============
Abdullah had not received the answer to his previous question yet,
i.e., how did that gentleman know him? But, despite that, he had
asked another question, i.e., why was the stranger looking for him?
Abdullah received silence and a winning smile in reply again. Then
the stranger turned the conversation to another topic:
I have come to see you; as such, I am your guest. Would you not offer
me anything?
Oh, I am sorry. Saying so, Abdullah looked in a direction. Then, as if
17 www.inzaar.org
waiting for a signal, a servant came quickly and understood what
Abdullah wanted, placed a drink for the stranger, and filled
Abdullah’s glass as well.
“You wouldn’t have tasted it before. It is only available here.”
Abdullah commented, picking up his glass. He waited for the stranger
to start so he could drink it as well.
The stranger, thanking him, took a sip and replied promptly:
“Your choice is excellent from all angles. You are undoubtedly an
endowed person. I am so pleased to meet you and have never been
this pleased to meet anybody before.”
That rekindled Abdullah’s curiosity about who that stranger was. But
he had already asked twice, and the stranger had not replied. As such,
it was not appropriate to ask again. Instead, Abdullah decided to
solve the stranger's mystery on his own. He looked at him for a
moment. The stranger looked at him, totally at peace and enjoying
his drink. However, he had a strange look in his eyes that Abdullah
could not interpret. So, Abdullah, looking down, closed his eyes.
Abdullah had a fairly high position in Paradise as the kingship of
Paradise had been bestowed upon him. In addition, unique and
extraordinary capabilities had developed in him. One of them was
being manifested at that time. As soon as he closed his eyes, the faces
of all the residents of Paradise started revolving in front. In a
moment, he would have found everything about the stranger. He
started to do so, but he heard the stranger.
“It is not necessary, Abdullah. Let me tell you who I am.”
============
18 www.inzaar.org
Since the discussion revolved around Paradise and good deeds, the
angel presented the standard that guaranteed the highest status. His
winning voice rose again:
“Sincerity has been very highly regarded in this world. An act done
only and only for God, even if it was as small as a particle, was taken
as a mountain. A single deed done for God and hidden from
everybody became a thousand. An act done to please God, as per his
preference, following the traditions of his prophets and demands of
the holy Quran, even though light, was deemed heavier than an act
based on innovation, personal desire and prejudice. Those who lived
their lives fearing God, adopted righteousness, exercised patience
and did good to others were considered by God more honourable
than anybody else. Those faithful servants of God who were harmed
in the previous life were declared Chiefs and owners of the new
world. Those who followed the path of sacrifice to do as God
Almighty wished became the most successful today.
As soon as the angel mentioned those qualities, Isra’s mind could
envision only one person. Her eyes shined on remembering him,
filling her heart with love. She inquired spontaneously:
“Where is he?”
The angel smiled as she spoke.
“I have been waiting for this question for long. But I felt that the
lovely environment of Paradise had enchanted you in such a way
that….”
Isra grew restless. She interrupted the angel:
19 www.inzaar.org
“He was with me in the Plain of Judgement and came to Paradise
before me. After that, when I entered Paradise, its magical world
captivated my mind and heart. But where is he? I want to meet him
first before seeing anybody else.”
“He is also keen to meet you. He has been waiting for you for long.”
“But he came only a little earlier…..
It is Paradise. There is no time here. A little time of that world has
changed into many years here. But he has waited for you, and when
he came to know of your arrival, he went to get a priceless gift for
you. He is coming to meet you right now.
Isra’s eyes moved towards her palace’s door.
============
The stranger’s tone and tenor had changed. Previously, he had
addressed Abdullah respectfully. But now, he had shunned the
formalities and addressed him as “Abdullah” directly.
Abdullah immediately opened his eyes on hearing his voice. He had
proved to be much faster than the stranger had expected. He had
found everything about him, that he was a highly placed resident of
Paradise, and with his superb capabilities, he had come to know what
Abdullah was going to do as soon as he had closed his eyes. And the
stranger, on arrival in Paradise, had looked for Abdullah first and had
seen him from a distance for quite some time. However, he had come
to meet him for the first time today, and to top it all, he was none
other but his father, Waqar Ahmed.
Abdullah got up as soon as he came to know that, happiness and
20 www.inzaar.org
disbelief written all over his face. The stranger had also risen from
his seat. He had realised that Abdullah had found everything about
him. He spread his arms outwards. Abdullah moved forward,
extremely excited, saying, ‘my dad, my dad’ and embraced Waqar
excitedly.
Abdullah’s embrace lasted a long time, and he wept like a child. He
had never seen his father’s face and had never felt his loving touch.
The reason was that Waqar had left the world the same year
Abdullah was born.So, Abdullah had lived his early years without his
parents' affection and protection usually provided by a family. First,
the parents had departed, and then his grandmother. After that, he
lived a life without any help or support. However, it was due to the
blessings of God Almighty that, rather than falling in bad company,
he had become an excellent person and had achieved the highest
place in Paradise.
His family life had started with his marriage to Naima even in the
previous world. It was Naima who had coloured his life after
marrying him. Even when he thought about his parents sometimes,
he could not imagine anything about them. However, seeing his
father, his deprivations of the previous life in that regard vanished.
He was delighted to know that his father had a very high status in his
own right, and that is why he was one of the lucky few who had
entered Paradise right in the beginning.
Waqar kept patting Abdullah on the back. His eyes were moist as
well. Finally, he removed Abdullah from their embrace :
“Please sit down facing me, Chief Abdullah! I want to see you to my
heart’s content.”
Waqar sat on his seat. Abdullah sat in front and requested:
21 www.inzaar.org
“Please call me Abdullah, Dad. Only Abdullah..”
“Yes, Abdullah, I was looking at you for a long time. I saw the crown
of honour on your head and your high place and stature and thanked
my Master for elevating my son to that position.”
“But dad, why didn’t you meet me earlier?”
“I was enjoying looking at you from a distance. When I saw the
honour bestowed upon you and saw your position and status in
every gathering, I used to get so pleased. The pleasure I had in
looking at you as a stranger is gone now. But there was another
reason for meeting you today.”
“What is that, Dad?”
“Your mother has also arrived in Paradise today. I want to present
you to her as a rare gift.”
“Really, Dad?”
“Yes, son. Your mom is an amazing human being. She has also been
judged worthy of the highest position in the Paradise.”
“Thank God.” Abdullah heaved a sigh of relief.
“Dad, I never tried to look for you two. I saw many condemned to Hell
and feared hearing bad news about my parents. Little did I know that
my parents I knew nothing about would be high statured residents
of Paradise.”
“But we are less than you, Abdullah. You have become a star in the
22 www.inzaar.org
sky.”
“No, dad. I am only your son. But yes, please tell me about yourself. I
want to know everything about you.”
“I will tell you all. But right now, I want to know about you. You were
quite small when I saw you last. And then God placed you on such a
high pedestal. How did it all happen? Please tell me, son.”
On his insistence, Abdullah started narrating his story, the
deprivations of his early life, his marriage with Naima, his journey of
calling people to the truth. When he brought it to an end, Waqar
asked:
“When would you bring Naima, my daughter-in-law, to meet me.”
“Dad, it is a coincidence that she has just arrived in Paradise. And
then God made me meet you. But my mom?”
Waqar started laughing.
“It looks like we will have to make a deal. You introduce me to Naima,
and I will take you to your mom.”
“But my mom first.” Abdullah insisted.
“Yes, that is what I want too. I have not met her as yet. I wanted to
take you as a gift when I met her first, a gift that would please her the
most. She wouldn’t even imagine her son has reached such a high
position.”
“Ok, Dad, let’s go right now.”
23 www.inzaar.org
Abdullah rose impatiently. Then, he asked thoughtfully:
“Dad, what’s mom’s name?”
“Your mom’s name is Isra.”
============
Isra’s eyes were glued to her palace’s main entrance when she heard
the angel:
“You have to wait a bit more. The time to end all waiting is close.”
Isra looked away from the entrance and asked the angel:
“OK. In the meantime, please narrate what is happening in the Plain
of Accountability right now.”
“The punishments and rewards have been announced. People are
being taken to their destinations in groups. The eight doors of
Paradise have been opened, and those assigned to it are moving to
that eternal destination, praising and thanking God Almighty. But, on
the other hand, the seven doors of Hell are also ajar, and those
condemned to it are being pushed there, screaming, crying, being
dragged and beaten.
“And the previous world?”
Isra asked a question. She had scenes of her past life in her mind.
“The previous world, along with its mortal existence and episodes of
tyranny and grief, has been obliterated. The new world that will
remain forever along with its never-ending punishment and reward
24 www.inzaar.org
has begun its eternal life. The residents of Hell are facing the anger
and wrath of God, perpetually screaming and crying, and the
residents of Paradise are enjoying the hospitality and blessings of
God, just like you.”
“And like Waqar,” Isra added immediately.
“Yes, but there are others associated with you in this Paradise as well.
One of them is a follower of the nation of the last Prophet and
Messenger of God PBUH, who spent his life serving God and inviting
others to follow that path. He was amongst those who made the
glorious Quran their guiding light in the darkness of ignorance and
sins and then introduced that light to the world. In an era when the
Quran was treated like a book to be seen but not followed, he and his
followers made it their lives. In an era when even the people who had
received the Quran remained deprived of its guidance, he and his
group judged every theory and position in the light of the Quran’s
wisdom and assessed every action according to the standards
provided by it.”
Isra was listening quietly but had a question on her face. The angel
kept talking:
“They had realised that the glorious Quran is the preserved word of
God Almighty. It is the most authentic heritage and legacy of the last
Prophet and Messenger of God PBUH and is the gist of the calls of all
the prophets of God. It is a guide-map to the treasure called Paradise
and the path leading to it.
“Who are you talking about? These are the qualities of my husband,
Waqar?”
The question on Isra’s face was finally expressed in words, but all she
25 www.inzaar.org
could think of was Waqar.
“Admitted that you love your husband a lot, but there are a lot of
others here. I am not talking about your husband. I am talking about
a person who took on the vile desires, dogmas and prejudices of his
era and made the Quran’s invitation for faith and morality a live call.
After that, he took that call and spread it to every nook and corner of
the world. In the last era, it was this very call of the prophet of God,
Muhammad PBUH, to follow the Quran that became the reason for the
arrival of Doomsday because when the truth was told so clearly and
still people did not follow it, there was no question of giving them
any further leeway.
“But who is he?”
Isra could not remain patient anymore.
The angel, instead of replying, looked towards the main entrance.
Escorted by servants, two extraordinarily handsome and regal
personalities were entering.
Looking at Isra, the angel apologised:
“I am sorry. It is your palace, and without your permission, nobody
can enter. However, I took the liberty and allowed the servants to
bring those two in. You know one of them anyway.”
Isra, oblivious to what the angel was saying, was staring at one of the
two who had entered without blinking. Even though he had changed
a lot in as much as he had become much more handsome, she could
still recognise her husband, Waqar, in a crowd of thousands.
==============
26 www.inzaar.org
“I beg your leave now.”
The angel asked, seeing her trance like state. But Isra did not reply.
She was only looking at Waqar. Joy and happiness had made her
tongue-tied.
The angel moved forward quietly. He stopped near the guests, shook
hands with Abdullah, and welcomed the guests:
“May the Chief’s steps be blessed.”
Abdullah, looking down, replied humbly.
“Blessings and abundance are only in the name of my Lord.”
The angel then addressed Waqar:
“Please go ahead. Your wife is anxiously waiting for you. I suggested
that you meet her alone first, but you had insisted on bringing Chief
Abdullah with you.”
The angel explained, pointing towards Abdullah. Waqar replied:
“Thanks, friend. You had already given me the news of Isra’s arrival.
I am sure Isra will be happier meeting him than me.”
“As you wish. It is your kingdom. Whatever you want will happen. I
have not told queen Isra who Chief Abdullah is but have indirectly
introduced him to her.”
“Thanks.”
Waqar promptly moved towards Isra. The angel signalled the
27 www.inzaar.org
servants. They understood and respectfully turned towards the exit.
Abdullah was left alone. He was constantly looking at Isra. Isra
looked the same age as him, in fact even younger, but in Paradise,
people knew each other not by age but by relationship. Waqar was
the same age as him but was his father, and Isra, his mother. He had
the same sentiments for them as any son would have for his parents.
He had seen his mother for the first time in his life. He felt the
sweetness and love that the word ‘mother’ carried from a distance.
Tears rolled down his eyes. He had felt the touch of motherhood even
without touching her.
In the meantime, Waqar walked towards Isra, who stood there and
gawked at Waqar continuously. Then she looked at Abdullah. She
had not liked the presence of a stranger on such an auspicious
occasion and could not figure out whether she should express
happiness on seeing Waqar or be annoyed by a stranger’s presence.
Waqar understood her feelings and clarified:
“Isra, don’t get upset with him. I have brought him here.”
Isra looked at Waqar and asked:
“Who is he, and why have you brought him here at this time.”
“He is the same person who the angel had introduced to you a while
ago.”
The angel’s narrative was refreshed in Isra’s mind. The person
introduced by the angel was definitely very well placed, and he
looked like one too. But why had he come to meet her? There was
nobody amongst her acquaintances who resembled him. The
residents of Paradise had become very good looking on arrival, but
28 www.inzaar.org
they had not changed to the extent of being unrecognisable. The
residents could quickly recognise those they knew in the previous
world. However, this fellow was a total stranger to her. If he was a
stranger, why had he accompanied Waqar? Isra could not solve that
riddle.
============
Isra looked at Abdullah carefully again, but she still could not
recognise him even a bit. Abdullah stood there, staring at Isra only.
Finally, Waqar signalled him to come close. He approached them
slowly. As he got nearer, Isra saw that he was crying. Isra felt a pang
in her heart, just about the same feeling a mother had when she saw
her baby cry. But she could not fathom the reason for that feeling.
Isra heard Waqar’s voice.
“Isra, I had thought when you arrive in Paradise, I will give you a gift
that you would always remember. He is your gift. Even though he is
a very high statured luminary of Paradise, he will always remain a
little boy for you. You can even admonish him if you want; he is your
son Abdullah.”
Isra looked at Waqar unbelievingly, and then she looked at Abdullah.
She just could not believe what she had been told. The tug of war
between reality and doubt went on for a while. Then, finally, reality
reigned supreme. Floodgates of Isra’s eyes opened, and tears rushed
out. Spreading her arms, she gushed:
“Oh, my baby, my life, my Abdullah.”
As soon as Isra uttered those words, Abdullah came running,
embraced her, and both cried. Isra saw him from head to foot and
commented:
29 www.inzaar.org
“Abdullah, I could not see you grown up like you are now. But, now
that I have seen you, it looks like God has poured the entire
universe’s luminescence in my lap.”
Abdullah sat at her feet and kissed her hands:
“Mom, I never saw you but missed you all my life. I always wondered
what my mother looked like? But, you are so good, just like dad. You
two have made me stand tall in Paradise.”
“No, son! It’s you who have made us proud. The respect we have
received and will receive here is much more than what we deserved.”
Abdullah got up from his mom’s feet and, kissed his dad’s hands:
“Thanks, Dad. You have made my Paradise complete today. My
deprivations have vanished in thin air.”
“But you will have to fulfil your promise now. I have brought you to
your mom, and now you will have to take us to meet our daughter.”
“Daughter?”
Isra asked, surprised at Waqar’s words.
“Yes, Isra. Abdullah’s wife Naima, your daughter-in-law. She is also
just like your daughter. Isn’t she?”
Abdullah addressed Isra:
“Mom, I will invite you to my place tomorrow. You will be most
pleased to meet Naima. She will also be thrilled to meet you.”
30 www.inzaar.org
“Why not, son.” Isra agreed excitedly.
“ I will be delighted to meet her.”
“Ok. I will leave now, Dad. I have to tell Naima about you two.”
“Son, stay a while more.”
Isra wanted him to stay longer, but Abdullah sought permission to
leave:
“Mom, we will talk to our hearts’ content tomorrow. Goodbye.”
Saying that, he bowed his head respectfully and walked towards the
exit door.”
============

“Naima….”
Naima turned to see as Abdullah called. His arrival was unexpected
for her. Even though they were husband and wife, they lived in their
own homes as everybody had an independent home in Paradise.
In the past world, wives lived with their husbands, and the husbands
were responsible for their financial needs. Here, every person had
been rewarded for good deeds. As such, husband and wife did not
live together. However, whenever and where ever they wanted to
meet, they did. They met at each other’s homes, and innumerable
scenic resorts spread over the earth and sky.
Abdullah had come to see Naima at her palace. He had ordered her
31 www.inzaar.org
servants not to inform her of his arrival as he wanted to surprise her;
his sudden arrival was a pleasant surprise for her.
“When did you arrive?”
“Forget about me. Tell me, what thoughts are you lost in?”
Abdullah had seen from afar that she was lost in thoughts.
“Abdullah, It has not been long since I arrived in Paradise. I have still
not been able to overcome the effects of the Day of Judgement. The
result humanity has faced due to its negligence…..”
Abdullah lovingly explained it to her.
“Naima! Our Lord has not been cruel. The instructions in Quran were
known to everybody. God Almighty had also explained everything
about this world in the glorious Quran. But, even after that, people
neither paid any heed nor did they mould themselves according to
the requirements of the Quran. As such, they deserved whatever
happened to them.”
Naima nodded in agreement:
“More than others, I feel sorry for the Muslims. The Quran was their
book. But they also turned their backs on it and took its invitation of
faith as a ritual tradition. Their faith never developed into wisdom
and firm belief. People crafted their individual ways for deliverance.
They never accepted the path provided by God Almighty in the
Quran.”
“You are right, Naima. The path of good deeds and the acts that
counted as good deeds were mentioned in the Quran. However,
32 www.inzaar.org
people did not give any importance to either that path or those acts,
although it was just another name of superior moral attitude. That
path was another name for praying to God, serving humanity, living
a life of patience, virtue and benefaction. But, unfortunately, people
did not adopt that life, and hence suffered the consequences.”
Then he showed a positive angle to Naima:
“But you see, not all people were like that. You think about people
who moulded their characters and lives as per the call of the glorious
Quran. You will find innumerable such souls here in Paradise. Once
you start meeting people, everything will be OK.”
“You are absolutely right. But, talking of people coming to Paradise,
why did you come over suddenly? Had you told me, I would have
spread the red carpet and welcomed you as royal personages should
be.”
Naima looked at him lovingly.
“Well, you may spread the red carpet, but tomorrow, as I am going to
bring over two people. You will be pleased to meet them.”
Naima was surprised and asked:
“Who are they?”
“Your in-laws and my parents.”
“Oh. Why didn’t you tell me about them earlier?”
“I met them only today. They are very keen to meet you. They are
coming to my home tomorrow solely for that purpose.”
33 www.inzaar.org
“In that case, I will start preparations right away. I did not meet them
in the previous world, but I want that when they meet me today, they
should be convinced that your choice was excellent. Perhaps what
you should do is bring them over to my palace. They should come
over to their daughter-in-law’s place to meet her.”
Abdullah, ignoring the last part, replied:
“You were exceptional earlier too, and you are outstanding here as
well.”
Abdullah was right. Even though Naima was good-looking in the
previous world, God Almighty had changed her to be the best she
could be in Paradise. Her looks, height, complexion and personality
had become so alluring that looking at her was a great blessing for
Abdullah.
Naima blushed on hearing Abdullah. Seeing her blush, Abdullah
smiled and, looking at her lovingly, added:
“You know, when you are around, it becomes a sin to look at any
other thing.”
“You are an expert in changing the topic. I suggest that you please
bring them over to my palace.”
‘Ok. As you wish.”
Abdullah agreed quickly. Naima’s face beamed with happiness.
============
Isra and Waqar had left for Naima’s home.
34 www.inzaar.org
Isra was happy. Every moment brought a new and different
experience for her ever since she had arrived in Paradise. The
journey to Naima’s home was also such an experience.
Isra could not figure out the kind of ride they were in. However, she
could see that it was like a giant ship sailing in the air rather than in
an ocean. Perhaps the word “sailing” was appropriate as it did not
produce any noise while moving ahead. They sat on the deck
comfortably.
The infinite, humbling vastness of space was spread everywhere,
wearing a grim black velvet cloak of darkness. Yet, billions, perhaps
trillions, of stars strewn all over the sky flashed, glittered,
shimmered and flickered, winning hearts and pleasing the eyes.
Every stage of their journey was an alluring combination of
luminance and colour, darkness and light. The density of stars in the
backdrop of darkness spread milky white light at places, and at
others, the twinkling, dazzling, glistering and pulsing stars and their
lights dazed the eyes. The light was white somewhere and of every
conceivable colour elsewhere. It stood still at places and danced at
the others, offering a single scene at a place, and elsewhere posed a
thousand angles, images and scenes on the vast canvas of the space.
Those scenes were so enchantingly beautiful that the words to
describe them had not been coined yet.
“Waqar, see how beautiful the way is.”
“Every way of the Paradise is as beautiful.”
“You know, ever since I have come to Paradise, everything has
changed. There is such a vast difference between the past world and
here that I am at a loss for words to praise the artistry of God. Never
35 www.inzaar.org
mind the world outside; massive changes have occurred in me. After
arriving in Paradise, if I walk and sweat, my entire body is wrapped
in fragrance instead of body odour. If I eat something, my mouth
develops a new fragrance every time. There is no need for rinsing. I
do not need to either take a bath or cleanse myself. There is no sweat
and its odour. There is no filth left. Whenever I want, the colour of
my hair and eyes changes. Whatever I want, I get it right away.
Whatever I think happens instantly. My mood remains upbeat, and I
don’t get bored, tired or exhausted. I always remain fresh and happy.
Paradise is such a wonderful place.”
On hearing her, Waqar started laughing:
“Paradise is a place that represents God’s reward. His blessings are
all around. And yet, it is only the beginning of his blessings. It is an
expression of the unlimited power of God. You know how far are we
going?”
“No.”
“In the past world, we would have covered this distance riding the
fastest rocket in millions of years. But now we will cover it in a short
time, and the beauty is that we don’t even feel that we are moving.”
“Really?” Isra asked, looking around.
“There is silence all around. It does not look like we are moving.”
“But now our journey is almost over.”
Waqar Looked at a bright light becoming more prominent as it got
closer:
36 www.inzaar.org
“That is the home of your daughter-in-law.”
============
Abdullah was waiting for his parents at Naima’s palace. They were
about to arrive any time.
Naima had formally dressed for the occasion. In Paradise, women did
not need makeup as God had transformed their good deeds into good
looks. However, the choice of dress and jewellery made an already
impressive personality all the more elegant and classier. That’s what
had happened in Naima’s case too.
Looking at her, Abdullah commented:
“Thank God you are my wife – ah, so pretty.”
“No, Abdullah. I should be thankful to God that you are my husband.
God Almighty has bestowed such a high position upon you that I
could never even dream about it. Discomforts of the past, sorrows
and pains, all have vanished forever. Only everlasting peace, solace
and pleasure are left. How lucky are we.”
“Yes, we are fortunate that God is our Lord and Master.”
Abdullah’s tone reflected extreme love for God, his Master.
“Absolutely.”
Naima agreed wholeheartedly. Then she started another topic.
“I was thinking of calling our children too so mom and dad could
meet them as well.”
37 www.inzaar.org
“We will keep that for another time. Let them spend time with you
today. These are only the first few days in Paradise. Such meetings
will become routine now. People will be meeting and introducing
themselves often.”
They were talking when a servant appeared:
“My lady, Lord Abdullah’s father, Sir Waqar and his wife, lady Isra,
are here to meet you.”
They got up to welcome them. Naima told Abdullah.
“You go ahead and welcome them. I am feeling a bit shy.”
Laughing, Abdullah moved ahead. Naima walked behind him a bit
slowly. In a short while, Abdullah’s parents and the servant had
almost reached where they stood. Seeing them approaching,
Abdullah moved ahead briskly. Naima, a little hesitant, a little shy,
stayed behind. She had never seen her in-laws. Abdullah had told her
that they had died while he was still young.
Abdullah embraced his dad. The father and son remained in that
position for quite some time. After the soulful embrace, Abdullah sat
at his mother’s feet and kissed her hands. When he was getting up,
Isra kissed him on his head:
“When I saw my son in the previous world, he was tiny. But now God
has shown him to me all grown up, just the way every mother wishes
to see her son. So, Abdullah, seeing you makes my heart filled with
gratitude for God’s blessings.”
When she was through, Waqar looked at Naima and quipped:
38 www.inzaar.org
“Oh, so she is the fairy who stole my son’s heart.”
On hearing that, Naima moved towards them, smiling and somewhat
shy. Isra embraced her:
“You are so pretty, by the will of God. In you, he has given my son a
wonderful life partner.”
“Mom, it is her character of the past world transformed into her
looks. She has made a lot of sacrifices because of me. She always
stood by me with great love and patience and was very faithful.”
Isra released her from her embrace and, looking at her,
complimented her:
“No doubt Naima. Your good looks are reflective of the outstanding
deeds and character you had in the past life.”
Abdullah added to his mother’s knowledge.
“Mom, she was gorgeous in the past life as well.”
At that, Waqar interrupted:
“Abdullah, my son, Whatever people’s good or bad looks were, they
stayed behind in the previous world. Now every person has looks
that were his or her deeds in that world. I am grateful to my Lord and
Master that my daughter-in-law, wife and son are all very goodlooking here from that angle. Yet, there is no one like my Abdullah.”
“Waqar embraced Abdullah again. Then he let him go::
39 www.inzaar.org
“Now, let me meet my daughter.”
“Dad, Abdullah praised you so much, and that made me so excited to
meet you.”
“Daughter, may God Almighty bestow upon you his blessings and
bounties.”
“Thanks, dad. Please come in. We have a lot to talk about to you two.”
Saying that, Naima pointed at the palace's interior, and all of them
moved in that direction.
============
They were moving ahead, walking through different areas of the
palace. Isra and Waqar were thrilled to see the grandeur of Naima’s
palace. They were elated to know that their daughter-in-law was also
in the higher echelons of residents. On reaching an open spot,
Abdullah stopped and invited them to be seated on gilded, regal seats
placed there.
As soon as Isra took the seat and was comfortable, she commented
pleasantly:
“Naima, I am so pleased to visit your home. You have been blessed
and rewarded by God way more than I had expected.”
“Mom, I am not worthy of all this at all. It’s because of Abdullah, who
has been bestowed with such high stature and honour by God
Almighty.”
“Absolutely. My son is so outstanding.”
40 www.inzaar.org
Waqar, looking at Abdullah, praised him. Isra agreed:
“Abdullah, when you were born, we had decided to dedicate you
solely for God’s work. But unfortunately, life did not give us the time,
yet our Lord and Master honoured our intent. How can we thank him
enough?”
Isra thanked God, looking at the sky.
“Mom, Whatever I am today is because of you two. I was called today
to be presented in the heavenly court of God Almighty. There, God
Almighty told me that a major reason for the opportunities I got in
life and the guidance I received were because of you folks. Dad was
specifically mentioned in that regard.”
“On hearing that, Waqar bowed his head. He remained in that
position for some time and then, raising his head, addressed
Abdullah:
“Son, I was treading on the path to Hell. It was a special favour of my
Lord and Master that he showed me the right way. Then, I was given
an exceptional wife such as Isra, and after that, a child like you.”
“Dad, I want you to tell me about yourself. What did you do
specifically that made you so close to God Almighty?”
After Abdullah had expressed his wish, Naima also addressed Isra.
“Mom, I also want to know how you were married to dad? Did your
parents arrange it, or was it of your own choice?”
Waqar replied her, laughing:
41 www.inzaar.org
“You will be surprised to know that your mom forced me to marry
her.”
“Naima was awestruck to know that. She asked:
“Forced you to marry her. How did that happen?”
The way she uttered those words made Isra laugh too.
“Oh yes. I married him forcibly. He didn’t want to marry me.”
“Oh wow. That’s so interesting. My question to dad was still
unanswered when this more interesting point appeared. So now I
don’t know which one to ask first.”
“Let me explain. The answer to those two questions is inter-linked.
How did I get close to God, how my life changed and how your mom
married me forcibly? I will tell you all.”
“But Dad, start from where you met mom.”
Naima questioned what was of utmost interest to her.
“OK. I will start my narrative from my and Isra’s first meeting, even
though it was hardly a meeting.”
Waqar answered, thinking about something. Then he started
narrating his story:
“Waqar started speaking. His words, riding airwaves, reached their
ears. However, as soon they heard the words, the events started
appearing on the screens of their minds as a film. It was like watching
42 www.inzaar.org
a movie. they were apparently listening but actually watching. They
were not surprised. It was Paradise, and they kept on experiencing
such unique and different things every day. They were hearing and
watching the story of Waqar’s life in that surprising way.
============
“This girl is quite capable. She deserves to be helped. See, she
obtained more than ninety per cent marks in every subject.”
Waqar gave the marks sheet to Sonia. Sonia took it, imprudently
giving it a casual look, but did not comment.
Waqar knew Sonia well. She did not like to appreciate others.
Instead, she saw everything from her angle. As such, he presented it
differently.
“She refreshed my memories of your student life.”
Sonia smiled at hearing that from Waqar and replied:
“She looks intelligent. Let’s call her and see whether she really knows
something or has got these marks merely by memorising, as is so
common these days.”
Sonia was not ready to fully acknowledge her capabilities as per her
nature even now.
Hearing her, Waqar picked up the phone and called his manager.
“Azmat, please bring in the next candidate, Isra Ahmed.”
When Waqar put the phone down, Sonia revolved her chair towards
43 www.inzaar.org
Waqar and started looking at him somewhat complainingly.
“What are you looking at?”
“I sometimes think if I had not married you, I would have continued
my studies. I would have gone abroad for higher education. Mom and
papa also wanted that. I was brilliant right from childhood. There
were opportunities, and I was intelligent. However, you came in the
way. I wish you were not my class fellow.”
Hearing that, Waqar started laughing:
“Oh. After MBA, how much more would you have studied? And even
after advanced studies, you did not have to become a University
Professor. It was your wish to become a businesswoman. I did not
create any obstacle in that. And here at business, too, you have
proved to be outstanding. Truth be told, I could not have run this
business all by myself. After dad, I had to take on this responsibility
suddenly. You joined and made it easier for me. Truly, it is due to you
that in only ten years, we have taken the business to where it is
today.”
Waqar had praised Sonia from another viewpoint but had
unknowingly touched a raw nerve.
“We have been married for ten years. Time really flies, and one
doesn’t even feel, and I am still……..”
Sonia left her sentence incomplete. She had an undefinable sadness
on her face. Waqar felt it and also knew the reason. Sonia had not
become a mother even after being married for ten years. She could
never become a mother. Before he could say something to console
her, there was a knock on the door, and Office Manager Azmat
44 www.inzaar.org
entered, followed by Isra, the girl they were talking about a while
ago.
Azmat introduced her, sitting on a chair.
“Sir! She is Isra Ahmed.”
Isra entered the room slowly and noticed that it was a large room. A
powerful air conditioner had made it ultra-cool even in the scathing
heat of the summer. An oversized desk was placed in the centre with
draped windows in the background. A beautiful sofa was placed next
to a wall while the other wall had built-in shelves for office stationery
and files, etc. The furniture was of very high quality and spoke of the
great taste of the occupant. Fragrance from the plush carpet on the
floor indicated that it had been laid recently. Everything reflected
affluence and good taste.
Isra had noticed all that in one look when she entered. Then she
looked at a man and woman sitting behind the desk. They were
Waqar and Sonia. Waqar was handsome and in his early thirties. He
was clean-shaven and wore a dark suit. Sonia, his wife, sat next to
him. She looked pretty young compared to him. Her dress was
western, and she had short hair dyed to light brown. She was pretty
and had a lovely personality.
When she moved towards them hesitatingly, Waqar realised that and
comforted her pleasantly:
“Please sit down, Isra.”
“Thanks.”
Isra mumbled, her voice hardly audible. She looked at Sonia and
45 www.inzaar.org
Waqar, quite impressed, and adjusting her scarf and dress, sat on a
chair facing them. Sonia looked at her intently.
She appeared to be a simple girl from a lower-middle-class family
with attractive features, but the dust of poverty and austerity had
somewhat subdued them.
The students who visited their office were from a similar
background. It was Waqar’s idea to help poor, intelligent, and
hardworking students seeking higher education. Even though Sonia
was not interested in the programme, Waqar insisted on continuing
it. He was a kind-hearted person who tried to help the needy. In his
view, the best way to help a low-income family was to help one of
their children receive higher education so he or she could better
support the family. For that purpose, he had started this program.
For the last few years, they had offered scholarships to those
students who had passed their grade 12 with outstanding marks but
could not afford higher education on their own due to financial
constraints.
This time, that girl Isra had the best academic record amongst all
those who had come for the interview, but she was a bit nervous
while facing them. She had seen such a grand office for the first time.
Despite the cool temperature, she had beads of sweat on her
forehead, and her hands shook a bit too.
Waqar had noticed her predicament. As such, before Sonia could ask
a question, he spoke to build her confidence:
“Isra, please make yourself comfortable. You have an outstanding
academic record and have done exceptionally well in Grades 10 and
12. We want high-calibre students like you to progress in their lives.
What do you want to study in future?”
46 www.inzaar.org
Isra relaxed a bit on hearing Waqar’s encouraging words. However,
before she could answer his question, Sonia asked her in English:
“Why have you applied for the scholarship? Why don’t your parents
pay for your education?”
Isra had no difficulty understanding her, but it was difficult for her to
reply in English as she did not generally converse in it. She started
hesitantly:
“Actually…… my father……. works in a small Company, and his salary
is meagre.”
Feeling her difficulty, Waqar interrupted her in Urdu.”
“You may answer in Urdu”.
Isra, looking at him thankfully, continued:
“As I was saying, my father’s salary is quite limited. My mother
stitches clothes at home to augment his limited income. We are three
sisters, with no brother. I am the oldest. I also support a bit by
teaching other students. I want to do MBA to become self-sufficient
and help in the responsibilities of my younger sisters. However, I
can't continue my education now. If you help me, I can assure you I
will not disappoint you. For your support up to MBA, I will be grateful
to you for the rest of my life.”
“See, it is not possible for us to pay for your entire educational
expenses as we have to help other students as well.”
Sonia continued the discussion while looking at Isra’s papers.
47 www.inzaar.org
“You have applied at the best university in the country and have also
passed their entrance exam. But their fee is very high. It would be
better if you seek admission at any other institution, or else we will
pay a part of the fee, and you can arrange for the rest. We will see
your annual performance and, based on it, decide about the fee for
next year.”
Sonia finalized the matter firmly. Isra’s face had hopelessness
written all over it. She replied slowly:
“You are right. Their fee is high. But an MBA from other institutions
does not have the same value in the eyes of prospective employers.”
“Another option is you do Bachelor of Commerce. We will pay the full
tuition fee. This way, you can help your mother with stitching too.
Then, you can offer tuition to the kids in the remaining time. That
way, your family’s financial condition will also improve.”
Sonia’s advice was based on consideration of all facts. She and Waqar
had studied from that institution. She knew that passing their
entrance exam for MBA was very difficult. Isra had done so, but the
fee was so high that it could not be met through the budget they had
allocated to help the students.
“OK. I will apply for MBA at some other educational institution.”
Isra’s face reflected her despair, but she also understood that Sonia
was not wrong. She mumbled sadly:
“Sir Azmat saw my documents and commented that Ma’am did her
MBA from that institution. I had thought that I might have a chance
to become like Ma’am Sonia. Studying there was the greatest dream
48 www.inzaar.org
of my life. But, perhaps it is not possible.”
“Yes. It is not possible. You apply somewhere else and contact Azmat
after that. We have approved your case, but the scholarship amount
will be decided later. You may leave now.”
Sonia said that decidedly; Isra got up. When Azmat rose to take her
out, Waqar, who was quiet throughout the discussion, spoke to them:
“Azmat, a minute, please.”
Isra left quietly. After she had gone, Waqar spoke to Azmat:
“Stop the girl. We are approving her case for the same institution she
has been selected for.”
“Waqar! What are you doing?”
Sonia interrupted promptly.
“You know that the budget for that is not there.”
“No problem. I will arrange it separately. Azmat, you may leave.”
Azmat went out. Sonia’s mood was off. Waqar, sensing that, tried to
please her and comforted her lovingly:
“My love, I saw your reflection in that girl. As such, I thought I should
help her.”
“I hope you have not fallen for her. You men are not trustworthy even
otherwise. Having the best wife, you still start drooling over other
ordinary girls.”
49 www.inzaar.org
Sonia’s tone showed annoyance. She had disliked Waqar’s decision
to help the girl out of the way.
“Oh, she is a student who I will probably never meet again. And then,
please see that she is a young girl, and I am thirty-three years.”
“Grown-up girls are grown-up women, not young or old.”
Sonia continued arguing. Because of her inability to become a
mother, she also suffered from an inferiority complex and insecurity.
“Are you crazy? You know well that I have never even thought about
anybody other than you. You also know how much I love you. So
please, close this subject and smile. I will take you out for dinner
tonight, followed by a movie.”
Waqar was using all means to please her. Finally, hearing him, her
mood improved and, smiling, she relented:
“OK. Let’s go on an outing. And, yes, I am not going to sit through
other interviews. You meet the remaining candidates.”
“OK. I will interview them. You just do me a favour. Tell that girl
yourself that you have accepted her application. Maybe God will
make me a father due to her.”
Waqar had appealed to the weak point of Sonia.
“Ok. I will call her in my room and tell her.”
“all right. You go. I will look after the remaining candidates.”
============
50 www.inzaar.org
Sonia left Waqar’s room and went to her own office next door. Isra
was sitting in the corridor. Sonia waved her to follow and entered
her room.
Isra walked in. Sonia’s room was as large as Waqar’s. However, her
total concentration was on Sonia. Sonia walked calmly and sat in her
chair. She motioned Isra to take the chair opposite her. Isra sat down.
Isra continued to gawk at Sonia, mesmerised. She was highly
impressed with her. For one, being a woman, she had such a classy
office; secondly, she was pretty, and thirdly, she had tremendous
self-confidence. In addition, she had groomed her personality and
attire according to the latest western trends. All those things were
new for a girl of Isra’s background. She liked everything about Sonia;
her dress, how she walked, how she carried herself and talked, and
her well-cut, dyed hair. In short, she was impressed with everything,
even by her stern attitude. Sonia was a perfect boss from every angle.
To reach that level was Isra’s greatest dream, and Sonia was a living
personification of that dream. She thought that one day she would
also be like her.
Sonia looked at Isra for a while, then, very stylishly, jerking her head
sideways, she pushed the strands of unruly hair back from her face
and started speaking after a few moments:
“Isra, as I had mentioned earlier, we did not approve your case for
the university you had been selected for as we could not allocate such
a high amount to one candidate. But you are a capable and intelligent
girl, and I hope you will do well in your life. As such, I am accepting
your case with one condition and a suggestion:
Isra was overwhelmed with glee. She did not expect Sonia to call her
51 www.inzaar.org
in for that great news.
“Ma’am, I am so grateful. I will do whatever you say. You are my
ideal.”
Those words of praise brought a smile to Sonia’s face. She replied:
“The condition is that your performance should not deteriorate. If it
does, your scholarship will be jeopardised.”
“I agree. I will not disappoint you.”
Isra replied promptly.
“And the suggestion is to keep yourself away from falling in love
during your studies. You are not plain-looking. You will find many
admirers. But remember, careers are not made that way.”
“Ma’am, rest assured, the purpose of my life is to support my family.
As such, there is absolutely no place for love and such trivial things
in my life.”
“Ok. You don’t need to come here again. Your point of contact is the
Admin Manager, Azmat. He will look after your affairs. You may leave
now.”
Isra thanked her profusely and got up to go.
============
When Isra reached home, she was on cloud nine. She had received
the greatest happiness of her life, and that too, when she had lost
hope for it. She went straight to her mother and embraced her.
52 www.inzaar.org
“Mom, I am happy, no, so thrilled today. It is the best day of my life.
It is now a matter of a few years, and then we will see prosperity. Dad
will not have to work so hard. You won’t have to stitch clothes. I will
get my sisters married befittingly. We will live in a spacious house
and have the latest car. I will be the boss with a large office and
people reporting to me, just like Madam Sonia.”
“Stop the nonsensical rambling and tell me what is it all about?”
Isra released herself from the embrace and explained:
“Mom, my scholarship has been approved. You know, Madam Sonia
had refused initially. I almost cried. Then she called me in her office
and told me she had approved my application.”
“Oh. And who is Madam Sonia?”
Her mom had still not fully understood her yet.
“Mom, when I left today, I asked you to pray for my scholarship. The
lady who owns that organisation is Sonia. She has agreed to pay my
entire educational expenses. So, I can now study further and make
my dreams come true.”
Isra’s mother had now understood the matter. She raised her hands,
praying for her.
“My baby, may God bless you with success. You are very capable. May
God bless those who have done this noble favour to us as well. Who
helps others these days? May God Almighty bless them herein and
Hereafter. May their children become worthy of them. May God bless
my daughter too and make her successful in this world and the
53 www.inzaar.org
Hereafter.”
Her prayers were never-ending. Isra got up:
“When dad comes home, I will give him the good news myself.”
“Yes, he will be so happy. He always missed not having a son. You can
tell him now you will be more than a son to him.”
“Yes, mom. Everything will be OK. We will see better days soon. Let’s
be patient for a while. I can see my goals coming true now.”
Her mother nodded in agreement:
“Yes, you must remember God on this happy occasion and offer
prayers to thank him.”
“Yes, Mom. I will pray. It is all a blessing of God.”
============
“Dad, you never told me mom is your second wife .”
Waqar had hardly reached that point in his story when Abdullah
interfered.
“And on top of that, she is so much younger than you.”
Naima added:
“My story is not a run-of-the-mill story.”
Waqar quipped, looking at them. When he stopped, Isra added to it.
54 www.inzaar.org
“My children, ours is not an ordinary story. It is very different, so
different that you can’t even imagine. It's just the beginning. Go on
listening.”
Agreeing to her, Abdullah asked:
“ Dad, where is my first mom?”
Waqar remained quiet. After a while, he replied somberly:
“Son, what happened on the Day of Judgement and has been taking
place ever since; I wish people had foreseen it in the previous life,
perhaps then everybody would have been in Paradise today. Your
first mother, Sonia, would have been in Paradise as well. I wish I had
fully understood the advice of the Glorious Quran - “O believers,
protect yourselves and your households from the fire fuelled by
humans and stones, supervised by stern angels who would not
disobey any order of God and they would do exactly as asked.”
“Waqar answered Abdullah indirectly. Then, having understood his
dad, he changed the topic and, rather than asking anything more
about Sonia, he reflected:
“Yes, Dad. You are right. Now we have seen that Hellfire and those
angels, and everybody has come to his senses. But Dad, if what you
had elaborated upon had happened, there would have been no test.
And as such, nobody would have been rewarded with these high
positions and levels in Paradise either. The real test was that the
message written in Quran was to be accepted as the greatest truth of
the universe that the previous world was only a test and the real
world was to start later. As such, one had to mould one’s life and
character according to the requirements of the Quran. But, alas, the
people did not do so.”
55 www.inzaar.org
“Yes, son. Negligence blindfolded the people. The same negligence
blindfolded me till such time a mammoth revolution occurred in my
life.”
“Oh yes, dad. Please tell us about it. I am sorry we interrupted your
and mom’s story.”
Naima apologised.
“No, Naima. You asked a valid question that came up naturally. Let
me tell you more about ourselves.
============
Isra got admission to the MBA programme. Initially, it was difficult
for her to adjust to the atmosphere there. That institution catered to
the elite and upper-middle-class as only they could afford its
expenses. Their attitudes, manners and habits were also quite
different. Students of Isra’s social background were a rarity there.
However, Isra was exceptionally determined about her education.
She knew that the lady luck had smiled on her and she had got the
opportunity to study there. She did not want to lose that chance
under any circumstances. Hence, she worked extra hard and paid full
attention to her studies.
However, a problem had raised its head the very first day. It was not
enough to only pay the tuition fee at that university. Other
educational expenses occurred from time to time, and Isra couldn't
meet them from her resources. She tried to do so initially, but she
called Azmat and explained her problem when she could not. He
promised that he would do his best to help in the matter.
56 www.inzaar.org
============
The next day, Azmat entered Waqar’s office with Isra’s file. Waqar
was busy on the phone, but he motioned Azmat to a chair.
After the call, he asked Waqar pleasantly:
“Yes, Azmat! What is it?”
“Sir, that student Isra called. If you recall, you had approved her
scholarship for the institution you and madam had studied in. She
called and requested that there were expenses other than fees that
were way beyond her capacity to pay.”
“Rather than saying anything, Waqar looked at Sonia thoughtfully,
who sat in the next room. Their rooms were next to each other, with
only a large glass in between. Sonia was reviewing a file. Waqar had
studied in that institution and knew what Isra had said was correct.
After a while, he concluded:
“She is right. I will arrange a monthly amount for her additional
expenses. But you will not inform Sonia about it.”
“OK, Sir.”
Azmat replied promptly.
“And the other point is that this amount is conditional upon good
performance. If her performance is satisfactory, we will pay that
amount. In addition, if there are any other education-related
expenses, we will pay them as well. Again, however, everything is
conditional upon her excellent performance.”
57 www.inzaar.org
“You are absolutely correct, sir. Even her tuition fee is conditional
upon her outstanding performance in every semester.”
“OK. You can tell her that. I don’t have a problem with the additional
amount.”
When Azmat was about to leave, Waqar stopped him.
“Please open a new bank account in my name. I will deposit a lump
sum in it to pay such expenses of all students. And yes, this matter is
between you and me. No need to inform Sonia. You will look after it.”
He looked at Sonia from across the glass.
“OK, sir. I will open the new account and inform you.”
After that, Azmat left the room.
============
Azmat called Isra the next day and informed her that her additional
educational expenses had been approved. However, she had to earn
exceptionally high grades each semester. For Isra, that was not a
problem. Education was her passion, she was used to working hard,
and God had blessed her with above-average intelligence. She got the
desired grades each semester, and her education progressed as
planned.
Isra’s confidence improved with time, and she was also changing
slowly. She had adjusted to the new environment and could speak
English fluently now. Her instructors were impressed with her
ability, and her class fellows also acknowledged it.
58 www.inzaar.org
However, she was undergoing other changes too. Her mother was a
religious person, and, influenced by her, she used to pray at times.
However, now academic activities consumed her days, and there was
no time for prayers. Earlier, she used to recite the Quran once in a
while, but now she did not get any time for that either. Her
appearance had also started to change. First, she took off the wraparound shawl, and then the scarf came down from the head to her
neck. Even then, she was dressed modestly compared to her other
female colleagues.
Along with that, Isra had ensured from the beginning to keep away
from making friends with male colleagues, as was the norm there.
She didn’t have the time to waste gossiping with friends, nor did she
belong to that class. The overriding factor was the goal of her life. It
had no place for love, flirting or friendships. Each and every second
of her time was spent on her education.
Two years passed quickly. A new and robust personality was
emerging in place of the old and weak Isra, brimming with
confidence whose destination was far ahead.
============
 As Waqar came out of the washroom, he saw Sonia still in her
sleeping gown, lying on the bed with pain evident from her face. So,
he walked to her and asked lovingly:
“What’s the matter, Sonia? Not feeling well?”
“I will not go to the office today, love. My head had been heavy for a
few days, and today I have a headache too.”
“Why don’t you take a pill.”
59 www.inzaar.org
“I have been taking it for a few days now, but it’s not getting better.”
“OK. Let me take you to the doctor.”
“No, it's not necessary. I just spoke to the doctor, and he prescribed
a medicine. He says nothing to worry about. I will be better in a day
or two.”
“OK. Let’s have breakfast together and have medicine after that.”
“All right. You go. I will join you soon.”
============
A few days passed, but Sonia’s headache was not improving. Waqar
took her to their family physician. When that didn’t work, he got an
appointment with the city’s leading neurologist, who prescribed a
few tests for her, including a CT Scan. The diagnosis went on for quite
a few days. Finally, the doctor asked him to come over to discuss the
reports. He had intentionally not brought Sonia with her as he had
some fears lurking in his mind. Now he was sitting in the doctor’s
office. The doctor, having studied the reports, advised Waqar:
“I will be honest. Your wife has a brain tumour.”
Hearing that was like a bomb exploding in his mind. Waqar knew
what having a brain tumour meant. Due to the tests performed, he
had figured something was wrong, but he had hoped that the doctor
would give some good news. However, his worst fears had come true
now. He remained quiet for a while to compose himself and then
asked:
60 www.inzaar.org
“Doctor, how serious is it?”
“As you know, anything to do with the brain is potentially serious.
However, you should pray, and we will do our best. It is in the fourth
stage, and the situation is serious. Based on experience, I can say
your wife has hardly a few weeks, at best a few months.”
The doctor apprised Waqar about the entire situation truthfully.
Waqar was shocked. He sat stunned for a few minutes and then
spoke to the doctor about available options.
“Doctor, I am ready to take her for treatment anywhere in the world.
Just tell me where and when to go, and we will leave right away. Both
of us have USA multiple-entries visas. So, we can leave even
tomorrow. I want to save my wife at any cost.”
“I will not stop you from doing so. You can try that. However, the
chances of success through surgery are low. Chemotherapy is a
better option. That will save her from any disability as well.”
“I will definitely attempt everything.”
Waqar sighed in a dejected tone and left.
============
Waqar had just entered his home. Sonia and Waqar’s mother, Mrs
Shamim, were at the dining table. The servants were bringing the
dishes. Seeing him, his mother, Mrs Shamim, asked him:
“Son, it’s good that you have arrived. Let’s eat together.”
61 www.inzaar.org
“No, Mom. You folks, go ahead. I am not hungry. I will eat later.”
After saying that, he left for his room.
“Sonia, please look after his health. He doesn’t look after himself at
all.”
“No, Mom. It is not so. His health is good. He is not hungry; otherwise,
he joins us every day. He looks after his health. Both of us are very
conscious of our health.”
“Yes, it’s God’s blessing. May God Almighty keep you two happy. My
prayers are always for your health and lives.”
Mrs Shamim was a noble-hearted person and loved her son dearly.
Waqar was all she had after her husband’s death. All her prayers and
supplications were for him.
“Yes, Mom. Please pray for me. This headache is hurting me. Along
with that, I have vertigo too.”
“If you are not getting better, you should go for a second opinion.”
“Yes, Mom. I will talk to Waqar. The doctor had prescribed a few
tests. Reports should be ready now. We have to visit him soon.”
Saying it, Sonia got up. The servant started collecting the plates. She
asked the servant:
“When is my driver returning from holidays? I don’t remember what
date he had given for his return.”
“Ma’am, he will return next week. Sir’s driver is here. May I call him?”
62 www.inzaar.org
“Yes. Tell him to get my car ready. I have to go shopping.”
After saying that, she went to her room.
============

Waqar was lying on his bed, and tears flowed from his eyes. As Sonia
entered the room, he turned the other way to hide his tears. Sonia
went to the washroom without looking at him. After some time, she
emerged, having changed her clothes, and spoke to Waqar:
“Waqar, I am going shopping. Please have your dinner.”
While walking to the door, she heard Waqar:
“We are leaving for the USA in two days. The seats have been booked.
So, prepare for that as well.”
On hearing him, Sonia turned around and asked:
“Why? Why this sudden move?”
Waqar got up, came close to Sonia, brought her back and made her
sit on his bed:
“There is a complication in your medical reports. The doctor feels it
will be a good idea to go abroad and have them checked.”
“Sonia was not a simple housewife. She was running a business for
years. As such, she understood right away that having the checkup
done so suddenly could not be a routine matter.
63 www.inzaar.org
“What did the doctor say?”
Waqar remained quiet.
“Waqar, what did the doctor say?”
As Waqar had not answered, she repeated her question alarmingly.
Her sixth sense told her the matter was serious.
“Nothing to be worried about. It’s a minor tumour. Hopefully, we will
have it treated successfully.
Waqar, looking away, replied.
“Oh, brain tumour.”
She whimpered and couldn’t say a word more.
============
They returned from the USA two weeks later without any treatment
or hope. The doctors they consulted there did not offer any hopeful
advice. The treatment they had suggested could also be done in their
own country. They had to wait for God Almighty’s decision now.
Sonia, who had previously looked ten years younger than her age,
suddenly started to look ten years older. For the first time, she could
see the death staring at her as a living reality. It is an issue with all
human beings. They are oblivious to death. They see others dying
every day, read and see such news on TV and other media, bury
colleagues and friends and condole deaths, and at funerals, they see
their loved ones departing.
64 www.inzaar.org
Yet, human beings always perceive death as applicable to others
only. They think that the angel of death only knocks on others’ doors
as if God Almighty had awarded them an exemption and the angel of
death would not touch them. A major reason for humans' wrong
notion is that they always think about the next stage of their lives. In
childhood, they think about youth, in youth about their prime, in the
prime of their lives about old age, and at old age about living a few
more days. That thinking makes them overlook the reality that the
last stage of their lives is death.
However, at times, the death suddenly appears before old age. In
such a situation, a person who is away from God and the Hereafter,
faith and good deeds, finds himself in a quagmire of hopelessness
and helplessness that continues to gulp his being. Whether he
struggles hard or leaves himself at the mercy of circumstances,
absolutely nothing can return him to life.
On the contrary, to those who live being conscious of God and the
Hereafter, death brings a message of joy similar to what a young man
gets on receiving the news of his marriage. People weep, they laugh,
people are sad, they are joyous, people lose hope, but for them, every
lamp of their hopes is lit brightly. They know that death is not the
name of a calamity but the harbinger of the reality and good news
that their test period is over, and the time of reward is about to begin.
Unfortunately, Sonia belonged to the first category. She was a scion
of a wealthy family, and life had given her everything-good looks,
wealth, good education and a loving husband, Waqar. But she did not
lead a life of thankfulness. She was guilty of the crime of negligence,
punishable with Hellfire. She always lived a life seeking more and
more, better than the best. She and Waqar were blessed with
exceptional success in business; as a result, her life revolved around
65 www.inzaar.org
acquiring the latest model vehicles every year, foreign trips, branded
attires and purses, expensive perfumes, fabulous jewellery and glitzy
parties.
But now, death had knocked at her door. The same death that had
drowned the reign of Pharaoh and Nimrod, devoured the wealth of
Mammon, gulped the beauty of Cleopatra, seized the power of
Rustom and defeated the intelligence of Einstein; Sonia was nothing
compared to them when it came to fighting the death. She had to die,
but knowing that she was going to die had killed her before time.
Those who live being conscious of death become alive at the time of
death, and those who do not live being conscious of dying die before
time on facing death. That had happened to Sonia too.
============
Waqar’s case was not all that different either. Sonia was his life, his
love and his passion. He adored her. Even after twelve years of their
marriage, he had never thought of a second marriage when she could
not become a mother. For her sake, he had even nipped his natural
desire for having children. He adored the way she carried herself,
lived to admire her beauty, got strength from her words, appreciated
her taste and sought happiness in her elegance.
But now, death had quietly knocked at his door. He had heard about
death and read about others’ demise. But what happened when
death arrived at someone’s doorstep with its collection bowl? He had
found it now. He discovered that even if he put all his wealth in her
bowl, she would still take the one she had come for.
He used to think that if he were to die, he wouldn’t have been that
sad, but the death had come for his love. After that, Waqar had to live
66 www.inzaar.org
like a lifeless body, quite similar to how Sonia was living now; quiet,
sad and lonely. The laughing and cheerfully chattering Sonia had
become a lifeless body lying on her bed waiting for death.
But There was one door left for Waqar. It was the door that he had
never taken seriously in his life, the door of religion. So, he decided
to knock on that door. He had started praying five times a day in the
mosque. After each prayer, he used to sit on the prayer mat and pray
for a long time.
When that did not work, he decided to do what was prevalent in
society in the name of religion. He started calling children from the
nearby religious school (Madrassah) for reciting the Quran and pray
for her life. He got amulets from religious heads of different sects to
put in water and made Sonia drink it. Whoever suggested a Quranic
verse to recite, he did. He roamed from the mausoleum of one saint
to another, distributed food amongst the poor, laid wreaths on
graves, donated large amounts to mosques and religious schools for
special prayers; he did whatever anybody suggested. Whichever sect
of Muslims offered a possible solution, he tried; but nothing worked
against death.
Along with religion, treatment using eastern medicine and
homoeopathy also continued. However, Sonia’s condition continued
to deteriorate slowly. She was admitted to the hospital several times,
but doctors sent her home. One day, around 3 a.m., when Sonia’s
condition was really serious, he became desperate. He performed the
ablution (Wudu) and stood for prayers. However, it was not a prayer;
it was a declaration of war against God. His supplication to God was
a call for rebellion.
“O’ God! I have approached whoever I could in your name. I have
knocked on every door. Everybody assured me that miracles
67 www.inzaar.org
happened. But in my case, they didn’t. O’ Lord, you cure my wife. If
you cannot cure her, what is the difference between you and the
idols? If you are there, answer me. If you do not answer, it would
mean that you do not exist. O’ God, I want a miracle. If you don’t make
it happen, I know I cannot do anything against you, but you will never
see my head bowed for you after that.
He finished the prayer and started weeping bitterly. Who knows how
long he wept. Then, exhausted, he went to sleep right there on the
prayer mat.
The following morning, Sonia died. He joined her funeral prayers
because there was no bowing or postulation (Sajda)in those prayers.
However, it was the last prayer of his life.
============
They say time heals all wounds, but Waqar’s wound was not healing.
He had wept a lot during Sonia’s sickness but had gone completely
quiet at the time of death. Nobody saw him crying after that. He
became numb, stopped speaking and hardly ate anything. His mother
tried her best to bring him back to life, friends consoled him too, but
his grief did not lessen.
He stopped going to the office. Azmat visited him at home many a
time and tried to convince him to start coming back to work. On the
insistence of Azmat and his mother, he went to his office a couple of
times, but it proved even more torturous. They spent more time
together in the office than at home. He imagined her presence there
all the time while he was there. After that, he never returned to the
office again.
His mother did her best to explain that life did not go on like that.
68 www.inzaar.org
Azmat tried to convince him that the office could not be run without
him. He understood everything but didn’t do anything about it as he
had lost control over himself. Life does not allow laxity in day-to-day
matters. His absence from work started to show. The business
suffered, employees started leaving. Azmat did his best to do what he
could, but it was not his, but Waqar and Sonia’s business. They were
managing it, and no one else had the understanding or the
capabilities to run it. In a year, the business closed. However, Waqar
couldn’t’ care less. His life and business and everything else had
ended with Sonia. It did not matter to him to see his business coming
to an end.
If that were all, perhaps life would have gone on. However, loans are
acquired to run any business. Sonia and Waqar had also obtained
them. They were paid back from the inflow of profits. It had been
going on like that for many years. Now that the business had closed,
how could the loans be returned? Slowly, the loan instalments and
accrued interest due to non-payment piled up. Waqar was not
interested in anything, but the banks that had extended the loans
wanted their funds returned. They filed a Suit. It went on for some
time, and then the decision was made to sell his house and pay back
the loan. That happened as well. Waqar had to leave his mansion and
move into a small house.
============
“Dad! That period must have been extremely tough for you. Isn’t it?”
Naima could not stay quiet. She interrupted Waqar in his story.
“Yes, daughter, it was the most trying time of my life. But, should I
tell you something?”
69 www.inzaar.org
“Yes, Dad,” Naima asked right away.
“In the previous world, when a person was facing a great
catastrophe, he was closest to God at that time. That I understood
much later.”
“Deprivation was the greatest calamity in that world, but in God’s
world, it was the greatest blessing.”
Abdullah repeated his dad’s words in his way.
“You are right, Son. Sonia’s sudden death in the prime of her life had
shattered me. I loved her dearly.”
“Where were you, Mom?”
Naima asked Isra.
“At that time, I did not know your dad at all. I had not even dreamt
that I would marry him, ever. We lived in our own and quite different
worlds. In fact, when all that was happening, I was getting farther
and farther away from him. His life was going downhill while I was
rising on a different tangent. I was fully occupied with my career and
future. There was no chance or question for us to meet again.”
When Isra stopped, Naima and Abdullah looked at Waqar. They
wanted him to continue. Looking at them, he started again.
“And yes, my story will also narrate about Isra. However, I was about
to arrive at a stage that completely changed my life. Having lost hope,
I had moved quite far away from God. In a state of frustration and
hopelessness, I used to be impudent. But he is so beneficent that he
bestowed upon me a special favour instead of getting angry from a
70 www.inzaar.org
lowlife like me. “
While saying that, tears flowed from Waqar’s eyes. There was silence
for a while. Then he spoke again.
“And that too, even though what I had lost were given to me by him.
In return for the sins, I had committed, all he had done was take back
the blessings he had given me in the first place. I should have felt
ashamed and apologised, but I was such an idiot that I became angry
instead. But then, God’s grace and blessings were showered on me. I
do not understand why, though?”
“Let me tell you why?”
Isra replied.
“It happened because you had benefitted innumerable weak and
poor humans. I was a thankless and disobedient girl, but when my
parents saw my success, they used to pray all the time for the person
who made it possible for me to go for higher studies, and due to that,
they had started dreaming of a better life. God Almighty is highly
honourable and more generous than anybody else. Since you had
favoured his servants, his beneficence gave you a chance that you
availed fully.”
Waqar replied regretfully.
“At that time, I was trying to deal with the issue on my terms. I
wanted God to make my world as I wanted it to be. Had he done so, I
would have been happy with him. But, since he did not do that, I
became upset.”
“That was the tragedy with humans, Dad.”
71 www.inzaar.org
Abdullah, agreeing with him, added.
“God had made the world to test humans, but humans kept on testing
God there instead. O’ God, do this, O’ God, do that. If you do it, it will
be OK. Otherwise, I will neither follow you nor listen to you.”
“You have hit the nail on the head.”
Waqar agreed with him.
“Dad, it was the Jewish approach. Jews wanted God to show himself
as per their wish, whereas Islam warranted that all decisions of God
be accepted heartily. One was to only pray to God Almighty. If the
prayer was accepted, thank God, if it didn’t, exercise patience. But
servitude had nothing to do with it. One had to be the servant of God
under good circumstances as well as in trying times.”
“Yes, Son. I discovered later that life is a test.”
“Dad, please tell us what happened after that.”
Naima asked impatiently. She was most interested in knowing the
details.
“I will tell you all everything.”
Waqar took a deep breath and replied.
============
Waqar’s life and business were destroyed. Despite that, there were
various properties. He was selling them one by one and going
72 www.inzaar.org
through the motions of life. Almost two years had passed since Sonia
had died. One day, Azmat visited him. He had joined another firm. He
was pained to see Waqar’s condition.
“Sir, why are you doing it? Why don’t you return to a normal life?”
He pleaded sadly, as he was indeed his well-wisher.
“Let’s change the subject, Azmat. I just cannot do anything now. I
don’t want to live either.”
“May God give you a long life. I pray that God the beneficent opens a
way for you. You have helped so many in making their lives.”
He stopped for a while and then continued:
“I have come over to discuss an issue today.”
“Please go ahead. I am listening.”
“You had started scholarships for several students. There is no
chance of new scholarships, but what is to be done for the old
students. The account you had opened, and the amount for the
purpose has been spent. It is time for their tuition fees now. They are
calling me. What should I tell them?”
Waqar listened to him and concluded:
“The scholarships will continue. I am not God who does not answer
anybody’s plea for help.”
Azmat could not understand what Waqar had said at all. So, instead,
he asked the critical question.
73 www.inzaar.org
“But how is that going to happen. Right now, the situation is that it is
going to be difficult for you to even meet your expenses in the days
to come.”
“I have quite a few plots of land. They can be sold for my upkeep as
well as the students’ scholarships.”
“I am thinking of a possibility. Payments to the rest of the candidates
are not a lot. However, Isra Ahmed’s expenses are quite high. You
used to pay an additional amount for her extra-curricular activities
as well. Do you remember her?”
“No. I don’t.”
“Any way. You have done more than enough for her. We can stop her
payments. She will manage somehow.”
“No scholarship will be stopped. Everybody will get what they used
to. I am not insensitive. Insensitiveness suits someone else. It doesn’t
suit me.”
Waqar looked at the sky through the window. He had anger,
complaint and regret, all combined, in his look.
Then he got up, took a file from the cupboard and gave it to Azmat.
“Sell whatever is here and meet the students’ requirements.”
“Please don’t worry, Sir. It is held in trust by me. The amount will be
spent as per your directions.”
Azmat took the file. He was a sincere and honest person and an
74 www.inzaar.org
employee of the company since Waqar’s father’s days. Waqar had
complete trust in him, and Azmat had also never given him a chance
to question his integrity.
In the meantime, Waqar’s mother entered. Seeing her, Azmat got up
to pay his respects.
She spoke to Azmat as soon as she had entered.
“Please counsel him, Azmat. I am tired of trying to do so. He should
start the business again. Sitting at home will empty even Mammon’s
treasury, but he does not listen. I think he should marry again; that
will probably bring him back to life.”
“Mom, let’s talk of something else.”
Hearing of marrying again, Waqar lamented. It was impossible for
him even to imagine anybody taking Sonia’s place.
“OK. Let’s do something else. You take me for Umrah on the
pilgrimage to Makkah.
She tabled another suggestion that she thought was practical. But
Waqar was not interested even in that. He replied casually:
“Mom, please go if you want to. I don’t want to go.”
“Sir, Your mother will not get Umrah's visa without you. It is a legal
requirement. As such, if she wants to go, you will have to go with her,
whether you want to or not.”
Azmat explained the legal requirement to Waqar. On her son’s pointblank refusal, Madam Shamim’s eyes brimmed with tears. She spoke
75 www.inzaar.org
in a quavering voice:
“Son, if you don’t want to give me any happiness, any joy, even then,
please try to fulfil this one wish. Don’t you have anything to give to
your old mother? You will regret it forever when I die tomorrow.”
On hearing her desperation and mentioning death, Waqar was
perplexed.
“Don’t say that, Mom. OK. Please don’t get upset. I will go with you.”
Waqar had agreed to please his mother, but his tone showed his halfheartedness. He asked Azmat:
“Can you help in this matter?
“Sir, No problem. I will make all the arrangements.”
“OK. Please pay all expenses from the amount received from the sale
of plots. They will fetch a good price.”
“Don’t you worry, Sir. Everything will be arranged satisfactorily.”
After re-assuring them, Azmat got up and left. Madam Shamim was
satisfied to some extent, as at least her son had shown a positive
attitude in a matter for the first time.
============
Even though Waqar had agreed to accompany his mother on the
Umrah trip, he did not want to do so at all. He had never gone for
Umrah and Hajj pilgrimages earlier. God was not a part of his life
even before. Whatever closeness to religion he had during Sonia’s
sickness was solely in the hope for her recovery; after her death, God
76 www.inzaar.org
had departed from his life. He used to offer Jumma (Friday
congregational prayers) once in a while. However, what to talk of
Jumma, he abstained from even the Eid (annual celebration) prayers.
With that state of mind, how could he be interested in the Umrah
pilgrimage trip? However, he was forced to go through it only to
please his mother.
Wearing the obligatory pilgrimage dress called Ehraam, they
departed from home. Waqar’s mother was in a profoundly spiritual
state; however, for Waqar, everything was meaningless and
purposeless. He kept on thinking it was an exercise in futility all
through the journey.
He had to be with her mother throughout the trip. He took her in a
wheelchair and accompanied her through all the rituals of Umrah.
First, he took her around the House of God (Khana-e-Kaaba) seven
times and then helped her through the trips between the two hilltops
known as Safa and Marwa. Then, he relaxed and enjoyed a haircut as
he had not had one in a long time. Thus, his mother performed the
Umrah, but, in his mind, he had a good walk and a haircut. Other than
that, there was no importance of the entire ritual for him.
And when it was time for prayers. He left his mother in the women's
enclosure and calmly came out of the Haram, or the precincts of
God’s home. He had decided never to bow to God Almighty again. It
was his rebellion against God. It was based on anger, complaint,
hopelessness, and maybe something else, but he did not know that.
When the prayers were over, he returned to the Haram to take his
mother. However, when he reached her, another difficulty awaited
him. His mother’s purse had been stolen. It had passports and other
important items in it.
77 www.inzaar.org
A plethora of new problems stared him in the face. From finding out
what to do and how to do it, lodging a complaint with the police,
going to the Embassy, obtaining a temporary travel permit, a whole
list of new difficulties and problems were there to handle. The
greatest difficulty in meeting the requirements and formalities was
understanding the local Arab officials and explaining what he
wanted. In the markets, people knew his language; thus, he did not
face any serious difficulty there. However, in government
departments such as Police, Immigration etc., all work was
conducted in Arabic. They did not know English. He knew English,
German, and even some Spanish, as learning languages was his
hobby in his student days. However, in his predicament, he regretted
not having learnt Arabic.
The first difficulty he faced was finding out where to register his
complaint and how to go there. He could not understand when
anyone tried to explain those matters to him. With great difficulty, he
found someone who knew his language and Arabic. Through him, he
came to know where to report the matter. When he got there, he
faced the same problem again. What he explained was not
understood or partially understood by the officials, and vice versa.
With great difficulty, that process was completed. However, by the
time he was through with it, he was exhausted and cursed the
moment he had promised to accompany his mother.
However, he shielded his mother from undergoing any trouble
during that turmoil. She sat in the Haram and prayed to God Almighty
for him all the time. That was what she had come for; to pray to God
to have mercy on his miserable life. On the other hand, Waqar used
to leave Haram at the prayer time and returned when it was over. It
was so hot outside that it was impossible to stay out for long. He
could not return to the hotel either lest his mother needed him for
something. For that reason, he had to stay in the Haram, ready to deal
78 www.inzaar.org
with anything she wanted.
While his mother stayed most of the time in Haram, it was a problem
for Waqar to spend his time there. Others went around the House of
God, Tawaaf, as it was called, offered prayers, supplicated or recited
the Quran. However, Waqar did not get involved in any such
activities. He just sat idly, whiling away his time, in one corner or the
other.
One day as he sat there, utterly bored, he picked up a copy of the
Quran lying on the shelf close by. Reading was his habit. Therefore,
picking up a book, going through its topic and a couple of pages, was
routine for him. As such, he had picked it up not as per his faith but
only as per his habit. Nevertheless, he did not proceed any further.
He had learnt recitation of the Quran to an extent in his childhood,
but after that, he never touched it again except when Sonia was sick.
He used to recite it daily during her sickness, and after blowing on
water, as per religious practice, he made her drink it.
Since he had no devotional attachment to the Quran to kiss it or touch
it with his chest or read without understanding it, he opened it
casually. However, it was a useless move as he did not know Arabic.
Perhaps earlier in life, he had never thought about it. However, now
that he had come across the Arabic language during the episode of
his mother’s purse, he realised that the Quran was in the Arabic
language for the first time. He also realised that since Arabic was a
language used by Arabs in their daily lives to understand each other,
therefore, whatever was there in the Quran, even though in Arabic, it
must be to explain something to them.
Earlier, reciting the Quran or its verses related to recovery from
ailments of any kind and blowing on Sonia, he always took Arabic
79 www.inzaar.org
words to be something magical. However, at that moment, it became
clear to him that if the Quran was in Arabic, it was also logical that its
purpose was to say something or to convey a message. A language
did not have any purpose other than that.
He had never thought about such simple and basic facts earlier. Some
matters are simple, but we do not think about them. When we do,
they become apparent, and we laugh at our simplicity. Waqar was
also in a similar state. He felt that if Quran was in Arabic, and he did
not know Arabic, there was no point in reading it. It would be similar
to what he had gone through while dealing with the police
department and others who spoke Arabic. When they spoke, he did
not understand a word. This lack of knowledge of the language was
the reason he had undergone so much trouble.
Thinking about it, he laughed and, while trying to put the Quran back
in its place, he saw another copy along with its translation in the
German language. He opened it and started reading it randomly from
the middle. His interest was in reading the German language,
something he had been away from for long, rather than
understanding the Quran. As he read, he could understand what was
written there. He read a few pages and enjoyed refreshing his
familiarity with the German language. In the meantime, he heard
Adhan, the call for Maghrib, the evening prayers. Perforce, he had to
leave the Quran and exit from the Haram.
============
Waqar entered the Haram again when the prayers ended, albeit from
a different door. He looked for the Quran with translation in the
German language but had no success. After a lot of effort and even
looking at a couple of other locations, he did not succeed. However,
he found a copy of the Quran with Urdu translation.
80 www.inzaar.org
He had nothing else to do. As such, he picked it up. He intended to
pass the time only. He sat with his back to a column and opened it
casually. It was Surah Rahman, Chapter 55, starting with the
following words:
“The Rahman (The All-Merciful Allah) has taught the Qur‘an. He has created
man. He has taught him (how) to express himself.”
Waqar stopped at the last verse. It had a strange impact on him. Since he
had gone through a lot of hassle due to not knowing a language, he realised
what a great blessing it was to know a language. If a person could not
convey to others what he wanted to, life would become so difficult.
Then he thought about the previous verse:
“He has created man.”
Waqar had remained issueless even after being married for twelve years.
At that very moment, it dawned upon him what a great blessing it was for
a man to be born. If God did not want, nobody could be born. Who could
know more than him what a huge blessing it was for a child to be born? He
and Sonia had made just about every effort they could, but they had still
remained childless.
Waqar’s condition was strange. He had understood the meaning of the first
two verses. So he re-read the first verse:
“It is the Lord of Mercy who taught the Quran.”
He read that verse once, twice, and then thrice. He looked at the Khana-eKaaba, the house of God Almighty in front. Then he re-read the verse. He
uttered spontaneously:
“It is God, the Lord of Mercy, speaking in the form of Quran.”
He felt a jolt. Throughout Sonia’s sickness, he had pleaded to God with
utmost humility. Whatever norms and rituals were available in the religion,
he had used them all and begged in the court of the Lord, but there was
complete silence. He never got an answer. God did not answer. Then Sonia
81 www.inzaar.org
departed from the world, leaving him helpless. That was the turning point
where he had started to wonder if there was a God at all?
It is impossible to plead with such intensity and in such pain and not get an
answer. Waqar’s point of view was quite simple. When a person calls
another person for help, he definitely answers. Either he helps, or he
expresses his inability to do so. But God had not answered, nor did he reply.
God was unlike a human, and he had no inability. He could do anything and
everything, and yet he did not answer Waqar’s call. Waqar had concluded
from this silence that there was no God; as such, it was no use calling
someone who was not there.
However, at that particular moment, holding the Quran in his hands, with
the Kaaba in front, understanding Quran so comprehensively for the first
time, he felt that the God he had called, pleaded and begged for so long and
had lost hope of a reply from had suddenly started speaking. He was awed
and felt God was speaking to him. He started reading the translation of
Surah Rahman, Chapter 55, pausing to assimilate it. It described the
blessings spread from the sky to the earth, which Waqar had never thought
of. Reading it, it reached the point where it stated:
“So, (O mankind and Jinn) which of the bounties of your Lord will you deny?”
(Surah Rahman, Chapter 55, Verse 13.)
At that moment, he had a strange realisation. He had always called God
when he was in trouble. He had never realised that God had already given
him so much; even what he had lost was also actually given by God. As such,
a misfortune or misery was, in fact, another name of a blessing or favour
that was taken away. As long as that blessing was with him, he never
thanked God for it. However, when it was taken away, he realised what a
great blessing he already had. He thought about those other innumerable
blessings he still had.
Not knowing Arabic, he had to face so many problems. What if God had
made him dumb and he could not speak? What would have happened then?
Waqar trembled as he thought about it. He realised that not knowing a
language led to so many difficulties; what if all the blessings and favours of
the sky and earth were snatched away. What monumental problems the
82 www.inzaar.org
human beings would face in such an eventuality? He read further about the
favours God had bestowed on human beings. Suddenly, he reached another
verse:
“Everyone on this Earth has to perish. Only your Lord Himself, full of Majesty
and Honour, will remain forever.”
(Surah Rahman, Chapter 55, Verses 26 & 27.)
Waqar could not proceed ahead. He had not been able to accept Sonia’s
demise till today. At that very moment, he realised for the first time that
God was telling him that not only Sonia but everybody had to die one day.
It is only God who would remain forever. For the rest, one could pray as
much as he wanted; when the time for someone to die arrived, it could not
be delayed no matter what. As soon as he understood that, he realised that
Sonia was dead and that God’s decision about her had arrived. That
decision would be made for everybody sooner or later. On realising that,
tears started rolling from his eyes.
A night before Sonia’s death, he had bitterly wept while sitting on the
prayer rug. After that day, his tears had dried up. Those floodgates broke
open today. He wept and kept on weeping. Tears flowed unhindered. There
was a cold slab of pain in him. It melted into tears and flowed through his
eyes. He kept on weeping bitterly, the tears not taking a respite. The slab of
pain burdening his heart for so long had melted totally and was emanating
from his eyes.
He cried for a long time. When he stopped, he tried to read ahead. Another
verse was there:
“All those in the heavens and earth beseech Him (for their needs). Every day
He is in a state of action”.
(Surah Rahman, Chapter 55, Verse 29)
The previous verse had told him that his past life with Sonia had ended. But
after reading this verse, he felt as if Quran was telling him that he was being
given another chance to live a new life. At that moment, he felt as if the
whole world had been obliterated, God Almighty had appeared, and he was
83 www.inzaar.org
seeing him through the eyes of his senses. He felt God was asking him to
pray to him for whatever he wanted.
He uttered uncontrollably:
“ My God, I do not ask for business, wealth, status or luxury. Through
Sonia's death, I have learnt that all of that has to be left behind - everything
will be left behind. I beg you to bestow upon me your never-ending
blessings. Please do not say no today. Please appear with your
magnanimous, beneficent glory today.
At that very moment, Adhan, the call for the night prayer, Isha, echoed loud.
The narration of the greatness of God spread around. He listened to the
Adhan intently for the first time. That Adhan was so attractive that it
continued to penetrate his heart. His tears had stopped. There was a wave
of peace and bliss that had soothed his heart. His chest, burning with grief
for the last two years, had cooled down. When the Adhan was over, he got
up to leave. But this time, he was not running away from the prayer. He was
going for ablution and coming back to pray.
============
“Dad, you really touched my heart.”
Naima, looking fondly at Waqar, admired.
“Yes, daughter, I still remember that moment. It was the most precious
moment of my life. That moment started the spell of God’s infinite blessings
I am still benefitting from. That blessing did not restrict itself to my person
only; it spread to Isra as well as my next generation. I became the father of
a great person such as Abdullah. And through him, this blessing reached
millions of others.”
As soon as Abdullah heard that, he got up and sat at his dad’s feet:
“Dad, I am nothing. You are great. Whatever I became, it was because of
you. I was bestowed with God Almighty’s blessings due to you.”
84 www.inzaar.org
“Son, only God is great. He blessed us all. He tested us through minor
difficulties of the world and then brought us back to life with his neverending bounties.”
“Of course, Dad. The real greatness and praise are only for my Lord, who
honoured every promise he made in the Quran and bestowed upon us the
infinite, never-ending bounties.”
“But you are not mentioning one more blessing of God.”
Isra, looking at Waqar, chuckled.
“Yes, you are right. You were that great blessing God Almighty bestowed
upon me in the previous world.”
Then, looking at Naima and Abdullah, he added:
“You know when Isra entered my life, what special favour of God I
received?”
Both looked at him questioningly. Waqar explained:
“God brought Sonia back to life. What I had lost, I got back in a much better
shape.”
“Oh really? But how? Dad, I want to know all about it.”
Naima asked excitedly. Waqar explained:
“I will tell you everything. But it happened much later. Also, it was not a
simple issue. It was not that Isra entered my home quietly as my bride one
day. There were a lot of ups and downs in it. It was only God who supported
me through thick and thin. Isra and I were travelling on different paths. It
was only God who made us meet each other. However, I went through
many stages before that in my personal life, the most important being that
I found God alive in the shape of the Quran. Finding the Glorious Quran was
that turning point that changed my life and the Hereafter forever. Let me
give you details of that blessing first.”
Having said that, Waqar started turning pages of his past again.
============
85 www.inzaar.org
Those were the early days of Waqar’s stay in Makkah. They had to be there
for fifteen days. He had only one activity during that period, i.e., reading the
Glorious Quran. He did not only read; he read it with the feeling that God
was speaking to him. The Lord of the sky and the earth was talking to the
earth's inhabitants. The merciful, the glorious and praiseworthy was
addressing his servants. During Sonia’s sickness, it was most painful for
him to pray and beg God for help and not get a reply. Due to that, he had
become doubtful about the existence of God. However, he had now realised
that there was at least one source, i.e., the Quran, through which he could
hear God speaking. It was such an overwhelming discovery for him that he
had become oblivious to all else. He only prayed during the prayer timings,
and other than that, he tried to comprehend God Almighty’s address to
humans.
A significant advantage of being present in the Haram was that the Quran
was revealed right there for the first time. He had never been interested in
religion, but he remembered, to some extent, lessons taught at the school
in Islamic studies classes. He knew that the Quran was revealed on Prophet
Muhammad PBUH fourteen hundred years ago. Prophet Muhammad PBUH
stayed in Makkah for thirteen years, and two-thirds of the Quran was
revealed during that period. Those who belonged to the tribe of Quraish
were polytheists. Forsaking God, they had made other idols to worship.
When the Quran asked people to worship the one and only God Almighty,
only a few accepted the call initially because the tribal leaders of Makkah
had become staunchly against that call. However, the impact of the holy
Quran was so powerful that anybody who listened to it, keeping aside his
own prejudices, was left with no choice but to accept it as the ultimate
truth.
That reality had been experienced by Waqar as well. A few verses of the
Holy Quran had conquered his heart and mind. He used to think that if the
impact of translation was so strong, what would have been its impact on
those who knew the Arabic language. Gradually, the number of those who
accepted the truth increased, but at the same time, the infidel chiefs started
86 www.inzaar.org
subjecting them to harsh punishments. However, due to the impact of the
Quran, people underwent extreme tyranny and chastisement but did not
turn their backs on the truth.
That was the situation commented upon in approximately two-thirds of the
Quran. It narrated the invitation of the holy Prophet of God Muhammad
PBUH, its logical arguments and warning to the opponents. By narrating what
had happened to the previous nations, they were reminded of the wrath of
God and good news for the followers.
Since Waqar knew that background, he devised a different way to study the
Quran. Every chapter had mentioned whether it was revealed in Makkah
called Makki or Madinah, called Madni. So, when he came across a Madni
chapter, he left it and recited and read the translation of only the Makki
chapters.
While reciting the Makki chapters, Waqar visualised Prophet Muhammad
PBUH standing in the Haram reciting the Quran through the eyes of his
imagination. Muslims and Infidels were listening to it from their
viewpoints. Waqar also did so to understand Quran in its historical
background. A primary advantage of doing it was that he understood the
fundamental invitation of the glorious Quran quite easily. It was a call to
accept and follow the one and only God and thus be successful in the
Hereafter.
Waqar was not a scholar. He could not comprehend quite a few points but
did not get disheartened. The reason was that the Quran wanted to make
others fully understand what was firstly very clear. Secondly, God Almighty
had repeated that already clear message in the Quran so many times and in
so many different ways that even an idiot would not have difficulty
understanding it. Waqar was, in comparison, an intelligent and highly
educated man. So how could he have a problem?
One did not have to be a scholar, a jurist or a theologist to understand the
real message of the Quran. That real message invited towards true faith and
morals. Waqar did not find it difficult to understand that the world humans
lived and died for was of no importance whatsoever for God. His entire
87 www.inzaar.org
emphasis was on success in the Hereafter, and for him, that was the real
life. He took this world merely as an examination hall. All good and bad
events there were nothing but a test.
During his stay in Makkah, Waqar recited and read the translation of Makki
chapters of the Quran dozens of times. Every time, its real subject became
more and more apparent to him. Repeatedly reading it, he understood
God's message succinctly and realised that God was also showing and
guiding the way to Paradise to the humans. That way was the higher moral
behaviour whose details were repeated in several places in the Quran, and
in a nutshell, it was called faith and good deeds.
Waqar learned through studying the Quran repeatedly that faith was
not only believing in just a few rituals. Making God Almighty the
central theme of one’s life, choosing the eternal success of the life
hereafter as the primary goal, and moulding one’s character
according to the teachings and life of the holy prophet Muhammad
PBUH was the true faith. Good deeds were the acts generally termed
as high moral actions, and they were the practical education
imparted through the exemplary life of the Holy Prophet PBUH and
teachings of the Quran. That meant worshipping the one and only
God and thanking him for his infinite blessings and bounties, good
behaviour towards parents and relatives, sympathy and help for
poor and orphans, patience, charity, justice, keeping promises,
honesty and trustworthiness, adopting truthfulness and keeping
away from excesses and cruelty towards all beings, not usurping
their rights and lewd behaviour.
The whole week’s stay in Makkah was spent this way. It was Waqar
and his reading and understanding of the Quran. On the other hand,
his mother had only one primary task, which she had started
immediately on arrival. It was praying for his son to start a new life,
remarry and work for the betterment in this life and the Hereafter.
The mother and the son were busy working towards their goals the
88 www.inzaar.org
entire week.
============
Isra’s life was gradually getting better. It was the last year of her
education, and her academic performance was outstanding. She did
not worry about tuition fees and other associated expenses due to
Azmat. As such, her entire focus was on her studies. Her mother still
worked to meet household expenses and her daughters' education.
One had finished Grade 12, and the other was in Grade 10. Isra was
confident that the situation would improve substantially in the days
to come. During her education, she interned in a couple of Companies
and gained experience working in large Organisations. Before
graduation, students with good grades at her educational institution
routinely received job offers from reputable companies. It was a
given that Isra would receive a job offer during the last semester due
to her outstanding academic performance, leading to the end of her
family’s financial problems.
However, during that period, she now faced another major crisis.
Her father had started to feel unwell. She took him to the doctor and
discovered that he was afflicted with Hepatitis ‘C’. Not only that but
his lever was also affected because of it. There was no cure except
liver transplant, a relatively new development globally. However, it
could not be done in the country, and taking him abroad for such an
exorbitantly expensive treatment was impossible for her.
The details of her father’s sickness worried her tremendously. She
had thought that life would get easier for them. Instead, she now
faced the greatest predicament of her life. Her father, who had
worked so hard all his life to bring her up, was facing death even
before he could see the fruit of his labour. The question that faced
her now was what could she do to arrange such expensive
89 www.inzaar.org
treatment? Nobody had helped them from amongst her relatives in
the past, and there was no hope they would do it now. She had no
friends who could help to that extent either. She had never felt so
helpless before in her life. The only option she had was to watch her
dear father die slowly.
============
Waqar’s routine on arrival in Madinah remained the same as in
Makkah. Other than offering prayers, he only read the Quran.
However, he was now reading the chapters revealed in Madinah,
called the Madni chapters. Approximately one-third of the Quran was
comprised of them. In Madinah, Muslims had established their first
state. As such, Islamic laws for individuals and the community, or
Sharia, as they were called, were revealed. Orders for replying to the
tyranny of infidels through war and banishing polytheists from
Makkah were given, and details of those orders were also provided.
Since the people of the book, i.e., Christians and Jews, were present
in Madinah, they were mentioned. Accordingly, after the Muslims
came to power, a few hypocrites were identified as well, who, for
their benefit, had apparently become Muslims but had not really
accepted the faith. The Quran contained a discourse on them.
However, after reading the Quran dozens of times, Waqar concluded
that the actual invitation and demands of the glorious Quran had not
undergone any change - call to faith, higher morals, moving the heart
away from everything other than God and making remembrance of
God Almighty the purpose of life, taking the world as an examination
centre and sowing a crop for betterment in the Hereafter, servitude
to the Lord, spending in the way of God, mercy and kindheartedness
for the weaker elements of society, good behaviour, justice,
generosity, honesty and faithfulness. In fact, the fundamental call of
the Quran was the same - saving oneself from the filth of the world
90 www.inzaar.org
while living in it and a mission for betterment in the Hereafter. In
addition, in the Madni chapters, laws of Sharia were also provided so
that people could follow God’s orders in their individual and
collective lives. Of course, following those orders was also a
requirement of faith. But the purpose of Sharia was to provide a legal
cover to some requirements of faith and righteousness, such as five
daily prayers to abundantly remember God, waging holy war to end
tyranny, and orders on ethically appropriate social conduct to save
men and women from forming illicit relationships.
============
Going from the Prophet’s PBUH Mosque to the hotel on the last day of
their stay in Madinah, Waqar’s mother mentioned to him:
“My son! I have prayed hard for your happiness. I am sure God the
beneficent will surely listen to my prayers.”
“Mom, I am so happy that I came here. The burden of grief I had
carried for so long is gone now.”
When Waqar replied smilingly. She expressed her heart’s desire:
“So, you should remarry now.”
“Mom, that cannot be. Nobody can take Sonia’s place. So please don’t
talk to me on this subject. But you should be satisfied that by coming
here, the clouds of grief and tragedy hovering over me have finally
disappeared.”
“Son, how would you live your entire life like that?”
“Mom, you also passed your life after dad had departed.”
91 www.inzaar.org
“That is true. But I had you. Children are a great support.”
“Mom, I have the support of my God now. It is the greatest support.
Moreover, I have found my mission, that is, to go to Paradise. I have
to struggle and work hard for that. As far as children are concerned,
I had killed that desire even when Sonia was alive.”
“I think it is no use talking to you. I have now placed my hope in God
Almighty only. He will change your heart.”
When his mom snapped, he tried to convince her softly:
“Please be assured, Mom. God has changed my heart a lot. I am very
much at peace.”
“May God keep you always at peace. That is my prayer for you.”
“Please just keep praying. That is more than enough for me.”
============
They returned from Madinah to Makkah. After a day’s stay, they had
to return home. Waqar spent his last night in the Haram. He did not
recite Quran during that period. Instead, he continuously went
around the Kaaba, doing Tawaf. With words of gratefulness on his
lips, his heart was full of praise for the blessings God Almighty had
bestowed upon him. He had discovered God as a living entity through
the glorious Quran, chosen Paradise as his destination, and had also
found the way to get there. Even though memories of Sonia still hurt
him like a thorn in the heart, he had learnt from the Quran that
patience had an unlimited reward. That understanding had become
the remedy for living the life for him.
92 www.inzaar.org
Before Fajr's prayers, when he was tired, he sat facing the Haram
and stared at it. Tears flowed uncontrollably from his eyes, and the
words of prayer flowed from his lips:
“O Lord, I thank you for leading me to the glorious Quran before my
death. I have understood your plan and what you expect, as you have
so succinctly explained in your book. I bear witness that your
Prophet PBUH has conveyed the truth to me. O’ Lord! I wasted my past
in great ignorance. Had I died in that state, I would have never
entered your Paradise. But I have to change now. I have to become
the human being as per your will and requirement, a person as
sought by the Quran because, without that, the concept of salvation
is nothing but fooling myself. On Doomsday, you will unequivocally
declare that you had told everything in no uncertain terms to the
people by writing it in your book. Even after that, if people do not
find the right path, it is only their own folly. After the revelation of
the glorious Quran, nobody can claim that he could not know what
the right direction was.
O’ God, I have to start training and correcting myself. Please help me
and make that path easy for me. I repent and forsake my conduct of
the past life. Please give me a chance to live a new life so I can work
to be close to you on Doomsday. I want to mould my personality as
per the call of the Quran. Please help me through each step of that
path. Amen.
============
When Waqar returned from Umrah, Azmat came to meet and
congratulate him, as per the custom. After the initial dialogue, he
gave Waqar an envelope:
“It belongs to you. I had held it in trust. Here it is.”
93 www.inzaar.org
“What is it?” Waqar was surprised.
“It is a letter to Madam Sofia from that student, Isra, whose
educational expenses you have been looking after for the last four
years. She visited my office, gave it to me and requested me to pass
it on to Madam Sonia.”
“You should have told her that Sonia is dead.”
“Her education will be completed this year. Perhaps she had written
a letter of thanks to her. I thought our association with her would be
over soon anyway, so why tell her about Madam’s demise. She still
thinks Madam is alive and is paying for her education, perhaps
because Madam Sonia conducted her interview, and you did not
participate in it.”
Rather than replying to him, Waqar opened the envelope and started
reading the letter, penned in polished English:
“Madam Sonia,
I hope you are well. I am Isra. You have been paying my educational
expenses for the last four years. I am utterly grateful to you for that.
I will complete my MBA this year. I had thought after that, I and my
family’s hard times would be over as I would get a good job.
However, even before that, my family faces a grave crisis. My father
has been afflicted with Hepatitis ‘C’. After the tests, it has been
diagnosed that his lever is severely compromised. There is only one
way to save his life: a liver transplant. Unfortunately, liver
transplantation is an exorbitantly expensive treatment. I cannot
raise that amount even if I sell myself.
94 www.inzaar.org
I have only one recourse now, that of helplessly seeing my father die.
I don’t know why I have written this letter to you. I don’t think
anybody would help me. However, if you help, I promise I will return
your loan slowly after I start working. You can trust me. There is no
element of lying in it.
Isra Ahmed ”
The following words were written in bold at the end of the letter.
“A powerless and helpless girl you had showered your kindness
on before and who awaits your magnanimity once again.”
Waqar reread the letter. Every line reflected helplessness. Waqar
returned it to Azmat quietly, who started reading it. Having read it,
he looked at Waqar.
“Please tell her that Madam Sonia is dead.”
“OK, Sir. I will tell her that. There is no treatment for this ailment in
the country. Going abroad is a proposition of Millions. How can
anyone help to that extent? Please don’t worry, Sir. She will not
bother you again. You have already done a lot for her. Nobody can do
so much for anyone.”
“I didn’t do anything for her earlier, nor will I do it again.”
Waqar murmured. He paused and continued:
“It will be an inconvenience for you, but please go to her home and
review the situation personally. Find out the amount required. Then,
I will arrange it.”
95 www.inzaar.org
Azmat was dumbstruck.
“But Sir, where will you get such a huge amount from?”
“Sonia had got a lot of jewellery she made in her life, but she never
paid Zakat (obligatory religious amount paid annually) on it. So that
jewellery is a burden on her, and now it is a burden on me too.
Perhaps God wants to relieve me of this burden.”
“But Sir, your current circumstances….”
“Never mind my circumstances. Just do me a favour, please.
Supervise this transaction. God Almighty likes it immensely when his
servants are helped. If you do so, you will be amply rewarded.”
“Sir, a reward for me? You are doing everything. I will only move the
funds. But Sir, I will again request you not to do it.”
“Had I got this letter a few days ago, perhaps I would not have had
the courage. However, I have now realised that only what I give will
be of any use. Earlier, I used to help the poor on humanitarian
grounds. Now I want to earn the goodwill of my Lord. If his goodwill
can be earned by getting rid of a few pieces of metal, there could not
be a better deal than that anywhere. Even otherwise, what use is this
jewellery for me? I will not marry again and bring another woman
home to wear it. This jewellery is only a burden now. If the Hereafter
can be bought by getting rid of this burden, why should I not do it?”
“As you wish, Sir. I will contact Isra today.”
Azmat replied.
“Thanks. But don’t tell her anything about me. I don’t need gratitude,
96 www.inzaar.org
nor do I want to oblige anybody. Just tell her that there was a servant
of God who helped. And yes, tell her not to take it as a loan, just help
from God. She won’t have to return anything.”
============
Isra could not believe her ears when Azmat called and told her about
it. How could that be? He had visited her home and then called her to
come to his office. There he broke the good news that funds had been
arranged for her father’s treatment. She had written that letter in
sheer desperation one day and given it to Azmat, but she did not
expect a reply. However, when Azmat told her about the
arrangement, she sat in his office, stunned, tears flowing down her
face.
“Sir, I don’t know how to thank you and Ma’am Sonia. I assure you,
as soon as I get a job, I will start paying you a fixed sum every month
till this debt is paid off.”
Azmat had sadness etched on his face in breaking the sad news:
“Madam Sonia is dead. Their business is also closed. That is why I am
working for another company.”
“Oh, when? How?”
“She died two years ago.”
“Then who is paying my educational expenses?”
“God’s earth still has some of his righteous servants.”
“And who is paying for the treatment of my father?”
97 www.inzaar.org
“I told you that the earth has not lost all God’s righteous and noble
servants. So, let’s not go into details. However, it would help if you
now started preparing for the treatment. And yes, this amount is not
a loan, and you should not worry about returning it.”
Isra was totally lost for words. She could not say anything.
============

Azmat sat with Waqar, giving him details about Isra’s father.
“Sir, Isra’s problem has been solved. Her father’s treatment has also
started. You really made a huge sacrifice.”
“I didn’t do anything. Nobody does anything for anybody in this
world. It is God Almighty who uses people to do things he wants to
happen.”
“It’s your greatness….”
“Greatness is for God Almighty only, Azmat. Greatness is only for
God.”
Waqar interrupted Azmat, and, looking at him intently, continued:
“Azmat, we are suffering from a severely wrong notion. Sonia’s death
has taught me that we are all inflicted with an illusion. We live as if
this world is everything. We make it our destiny till the moment
death gets us out of that illusion and takes us to the real world, the
world of God and the Hereafter. Then, at that time, we realise that the
previous world was nothing but a sham.
98 www.inzaar.org
“But this world is a reality, Sir.”
“It is not, but seems to be. And that is our real task. To discover the
hidden facts before we start seeing them with our own eyes. The
truth is as it has been detailed in the Quran. But it seems that nobody
is ready to listen to its call and give it the importance it deserves.”
“So, then this world….”
“It is an examination hall. Tests of our rational and moral entities are
being conducted here. The test of our rational entity is who has faith
believes in the merciful God and his eternal Paradise while he is
hidden behind a veil. And, the test of our moral entity is giving
preference to moral considerations, called the righteous deeds.”
“Sir, you were not like that earlier. Were you?”
Waqar’s words were entirely new for Azmat. He was a good person
even before, but the depth Azmat had observed in him now was new
for him. Waqar explained further:
The Umrah trip proved to be a huge blessing for me. My view of the
world has completely changed. I have seen God speaking. I have
discovered the glorious Quran. I have found that the glorious Quran,
in reality, calls us towards the Hereafter.”
“But how can we shun this world, Sir?”
Azmat asked another question.
“We are not to shun the world. The reality is that the conditions laid
down by Quran for betterment in the Hereafter, when practised in
this world, essentially develop and groom human beings who make
99 www.inzaar.org
this world a paradise. The greatness of the companions of the Holy
Prophet PBUH and the righteous caliphate was based on the truth that
they were living examples of the glorious Quran. This earthly
paradise was created by the impeccably matchless characters of
Prophet David PBUH and Prophet Solomon PBUH. I have prepared
myself to mould in that direction. Towards that end, I have started
studying the glorious Quran again to fully comprehend the character
God Almighty expects from a human being.”
“Then why don’t you get married and start the business again?”
“See, I am not leaving the world by not getting married. To marry or
not to marry is my personal decision. The reason for that decision is
that I am no more interested in marriage. I am not a twenty- or
twenty-five-year-old young man who essentially needs a woman. As
for business, I don’t have the capital for it, and I don’t have the
temperament for a job. I cannot be an employee of someone. I cannot
take orders. Also, I have enough remaining resources to lead a simple
yet good life. As such, I am not leaving the world. I am only leaving
that part of the world which I don’t need anymore, and that too for a
higher objective.”
“And what is that objective, Sir?”
Azmat had understood why Waqar did not want to marry or have a
job, but he wanted to know the purpose he had in mind.
“I am facing a dilemma from an intellectual viewpoint. I have
discovered a major truth in the glorious Quran. However, I have not
found the Quran in any cave. It is present in the homes of all Muslims.
I cannot comprehend why others don’t understand what I have. The
call of the glorious Quran towards faith and righteousness that has
shaken me up; why is it not changing others? The facts presented in
100 www.inzaar.org
the Quran that have made this world and its inhabitants unimportant
in my eyes, and have made God and the Hereafter most important,
why can’t others envision them?”
“Sir, I have not understood this point. Please elaborate on it further.
Thanks.”
“See, a concept of religion is as has been presented in the glorious
Quran. To understand it, one doesn’t have to be a scholar,
interpreter, theologist or jurist. The simplest translation of the Quran
is enough for anyone to know what God Almighty wants from a
human being and what is the Quran’s desirable human being. On the
other hand, the religious traditions and thoughts that practically
exist in society do not give any importance to what is written in the
Quran. Instead, people are entangled in other things.”
Azmat nodded. Waqar continued the discourse:
“In the few months of Sonia’s sickness, I was fully involved with that
religious viewpoint. But I found the real teachings of the glorious
Quran entirely absent there. The effects of the teachings of the Quran
are also scant in the characters of people. How and why has that
happened? I have decided to understand this issue. It is a long,
ideological struggle I have to fathom. And this ideological struggle is
in addition to the practical struggle I have to undergo all my life to
become a person as desired and required by the Quran.”
“But your mother, Sir….”
“I have told my mother that after Sonia, I will never marry again. She
has considered it enough that her son has become a normal and
positive person instead of going mad grieving for his dead wife. The
fact is that the attention, serving, time and love I give to my mother
101 www.inzaar.org
now, I have never given before. As such, she has also compromised
with the circumstances.”
“OK, Sir. As you like. But I will keep visiting you. I have found you a
totally changed person. You were a very good person even earlier,
but now a strangely unique attraction has developed in you. My heart
pulls me towards you.”
“Please do keep visiting. I will be happy to meet you too.
============
Isra’s father was treated and returned home fully recovered. Before
completing the last semester, Isra got a managerial position in a
major organisation. Her salary was sufficient for the family. As such,
she asked her mother not to work anymore. Even though her salary
was sufficient to lead a decent life, she had loftier ambitions. She
wanted to reach the zenith of her profession. Towards that end, she
kept doing different part-time courses to hone her skills further. As
a result, the doors of higher positions in different Organisations
opened for her. In a short period, she had progressed extraordinarily.
Besides her strong educational background, her capabilities and the
new personality she had gradually developed also contributed to
that success. The simple, apparently weak and meek girl of the early
days had disappeared somewhere. The new Isra was a completely
different person. She had Sonia as her ideal. The appearance that she
had developed for herself was also somewhat like her. Her dress was
as per the environment of the multinationals. In addition, she had her
hair cut to the latest style and had them dyed. Her appearance was
now the same as she had seen in Sonia once.
102 www.inzaar.org
As her appearance became more and more attractive, she created as
many protective rings around her. People found her attractive, but
her male colleagues dared not get close to her. She had become a
stern administrator, a creative planner and a convincing orator.
She had the abilities and skills that led to a rapid ascend on the career
ladder. Therefore, only after five years, she became the country head
of a division in a major multinational. Her salary had increased
substantially. She had accomplished her dream of a grand career.
Isra had made her own and her family’s dreams come true. Her
younger sisters had completed their education. The elder of the two
had been married, and the younger one was engaged. However, her
father could not see those days of happiness and bliss. He died two
years after the liver transplant. Her mother was alive but was also
going downhill fast, health-wise. She had only one dream-Isra’s
marriage. However, Isra insisted on getting her younger sister
married first. After that, if she found someone of her liking, she would
think about marriage. Her choice for a companion, naturally, was
similar to herself, a person who had reached the pinnacle of his
career, with whom she would conquer the world.
However, seeing her mother's ill-health, she had got her younger
sister married right away. After a couple of months of that marriage,
her mother also passed away. Isra was left alone in the world now.
To rid of loneliness and look after the house and associated chores,
she had hired a couple of maids who stayed with her all the time. She
was happy with her life. She had a large house, a chauffeur-driven car
and all the comforts of life she had once dreamt about. She had
accomplished all she wanted to at a young age.
============

103 www.inzaar.org
Those were the same five years that had changed Waqar entirely. His
hair had started to have streaks of grey. He had grown a beard, but
not long enough to give the impression of a religious person.
However, in reality, his personality had become precisely the same
as mentioned in the glorious Quran. That was the area where he had
undergone a fundamental change.
Justice, charity, truthfulness, honesty, keeping promises,
contentment, patience, betterment of people and dedication and
devotion to worship God Almighty; He was a living embodiment of
those qualities, and it was difficult to find another like him. There
was not a single requirement mentioned in the glorious Quran
missing from his person.
His income was quite limited, but so were his needs. Since he did not
have a job, he had a lot of time. He spent most of it serving his mother
and praying to God. Other than that, his only other interest was
reading about religion. He did not want to be a scholar but only
wanted to attain enough knowledge to fully understand his faith's
ideological background. He was lucky that his language, Urdu, had a
sizable treasure of literature on religion and improving his
knowledge through critical evaluation was his main task. In addition,
when he felt the necessity, he benefitted from the scholars of all
schools of thought without prejudice.
His life was going on smoothly and would have continued to go on in
that manner, but then another storm knocked at his door.
===============
“Waqar, I am not feeling well for the last few days.”
Waqar, who was massaging his mother’s feet, became alarmed on
104 www.inzaar.org
hearing that.
“What happened, Mom? I hope you are OK.”
“Son, I feel nausea all the time, along with occasional vomiting. My
digestive system is not working well.”
“Mom, I will take you to the doctor in the morning. Don’t worry. You
will recover soon, God willing.”
Waqar took his mother to the doctor the following day. He
prescribed some medicines. Observing the symptoms, he suggested
a few tests as well. When test results were received in a few days,
Waqar found that his mother had Hepatitis ‘C’. After several repeated
tests, it was further discovered that the virus had damaged her liver,
and it had lost its capacity to function. Now there was only one way
for his mother to recover; liver transplant.
Had it been the old days, the liver transplant would not have been a
big deal. However, such an expensive treatment was now out of
Waqar’s reach. He was at home for the last ten years. The business
had closed right in the beginning. Then the house was sold. After that,
the land kept being sold. His expenses were not much, but those who
came seeking help never returned empty-handed, to the extent that
now his own hands were empty. The meagre resources to live a basic
life were still there, but such an expensive treatment of his mother
was totally out of reach.
He had only one option; to sit, his empty hands extended, and call his
Lord. So, he did.
============
105 www.inzaar.org
“Please have a seat, Isra. I have good news for you.”
“Seeing her enter, Azhar, Isra’s boss, gave the reason for calling her.”
“Thanks, Sir. What is the good news?”
Isra inquired, sitting on a seat.
“This year, your department excelled in performance. As a result, the
company has decided to give you a bonus. In addition, your
compensation package is also being revised upwards. I had
recommended those incentives for you.”
‘So nice of you, Sir.”
“No. You deserve every bit of it. You have made phenomenal progress
at such a young age. I have seldom seen someone progressing so fast
in my entire career. I am a career-oriented person, and I have also
progressed similarly. Seeing you, I hope you will replace me soon.”
Isra was thrilled listening to Azhar. He was a middle-aged person
with a pleasant personality. He had kept himself fit and looked
younger than his age. Isra had worked with him for the last two years
and had found him a thorough professional. His attitude towards her
was amicable right from the beginning.
“Sir, I truly value your appreciation, but I cannot replace you.
Anyway, thanks a lot.”
“I want to speak to you on another subject.”
Azhar, clearing his throat, continued:
106 www.inzaar.org
“And if you mind what I have to say, just forget about it, please.”
After saying that, he stopped, and then hesitatingly started again:
“I am a career-minded person. I never thought about anything other
than a career, just like you. I did well in the race of life, but in doing
so, perhaps I ignored the demands of personal life. I have not married
yet. Marriage is a requirement for all of us. I have reached a point
where the list of girls willing to marry me is long. However, you and
I share the same approach to life. Perhaps you may also need a
person like me.”
He looked at Isra’s face for a moment intently. It was devoid of any
expressions. He continued again.
“However, it is only a suggestion. Please think about it.”
Silence ensued in the room for some time. Isra had never thought
about it, but she could not find anything wrong in Azhar either. If she
were to marry, it would be someone like Azhar. It suited her, and
perhaps she wanted a person like him. So, she thought for a moment
and then answered.
“Sir, please give me some time. I have never thought about it from
that angle. It is a matter involving my whole life. I need time. I will
think about it, and if I find it acceptable, I will let you know.
Otherwise, I will regret.”
“That is what I want. Please take your time and think about it. I will
await your answer.”
============
107 www.inzaar.org
“How are you, Sir? How lucky; you remembered me today?”
Azmat asked, sitting at Waqar’s place. He had also felt that Waqar,
who was usually always upbeat, was a bit forlorn. He used to visit
Waqar regularly but had not done so in a while due to other
commitments. Waqar had called him today. As such, he had come
straight from his office.
Azmat respected and loved Waqar a lot. He had found Waqar a
superior human being as a boss at first. Then the events he went
through and the changes he had undergone had placed him on a high
pedestal in his eyes. He had become an even better person than he
was before. Truth be told, Azmat had never met another person of
his calibre.
“I am sorry, Azmat. I inconvenienced you.”
“What are you saying, Sir? Your wish is my command. You asked me
to come over, so I did. What can I do for you?”
“I need a job.”
Waqar’s request was entirely unexpected for Azmat. To work for
somebody was not in Waqar’s grain. However, he could understand
that if one sat at home without an income, his resources had to
exhaust one day. And, that day had arrived.
“I can understand, Sir. If you had decided to get back to work ten
years ago, you would have your own office, and I would still be
enjoying working for you. However, let bygones be bygones. Rest
assured, I will do my best to get you a job befitting your background.”
“My mother has contacted Hepatitis ‘C’. Her liver has failed. It is
108 www.inzaar.org
evident that a liver transplant is way beyond my resources. However,
she still needs some treatment, and I don’t have enough funds even
for that.”
“Oh. I am so sorry to know that, Sir. I wish you had continued your
business….”
Azmat left his sentence incomplete. There was no use mentioning it
anyway. Hearing that, Waqar responded sadly:
“You are right. What could I do? Sonia did not only leave herself; she
took away the desire to live from me as well. When I finally overcame
her grief, my business had vanished. A job was not as per my
aptitude. I thought I had enough resources to live through life. But
mom’s sickness has suddenly put me in a predicament.”
“That is not the only issue, Sir. You always spent your money to help
others meet their needs. If you had invested that amount
somewhere, you would not have been facing this problem today.”
“I have invested it with God. I had kept enough for the rest of my life,
but handling a major ailment such as this was not covered by it. I am
not worried about myself as I am prepared to die at any moment.
But to see mom in this condition is quite painful.”
“Don’t you worry, sir. God will never leave a person like you helpless;
a person always merciful to people, God’s foremost creation, will
surely be blessed with his mercy.”
Then he thought about something and added:
“Sir, an idea has come to my mind just now.”
109 www.inzaar.org
“Go ahead, please.” Waqar inquired.
“When you mentioned the sickness your mother is suffering from,
Isra came to my mind..”
“Isra? Who?”
“The student whose father had the same ailment and you had helped
her by selling Madam Sonia’s jewellery.”
“Yes, I remember that. However, I don’t remember the names of
those I help.”
“I know that, Sir. Who knows how many lives you have turned
around. But Isra progressed the most out of all of them. She holds me
in high esteem, even though we have not met for some time now. The
last time she called, she had become department head of a major
multinational. She had called and shared her success with me. I will
talk to her.”
“No. forget about her. I will never want you to talk to her about me. I
don’t like anybody returning my favour or offering me charity. My
dealing is only with my God.”
“OK, Sir. I will not tell her anything about your situation. However, if
you permit, I can talk to her about a job for you. She can do it easily.
She respects me a lot. I am sure she will do it. I will introduce you as
my friend. Your salary there would be enough to meet the expenses
of your mother’s treatment. Perhaps you may also be able to save and
arrange enough funds for her liver transplant. Such matters are not
a big issue for Multi-Nationals.”
The hope Azmat had kindled for his mother’s treatment did not allow
110 www.inzaar.org
Waqar to say no. He nodded in affirmative:
“ OK. You may talk to her, but you have to promise you will not tell
her anything about me.”
“That’s perfect. I will not. I will talk to her tomorrow.”
============
Isra’s phone rang. Her secretary was online.
“Madam, a gentleman, Azmat, wants to meet you. But he does not
have a prior appointment.”
“Never mind. Send him in right away.”
In a while, Azmat entered her office. Isra got up and welcomed him
warmly.
“Assalam Alaikum, (Peace be on you) Sir. Why did you bother
yourself? You should have called me. I would have dropped in.”
“Walaikum uss Salam, (And peace be on you as well) Isra. I wanted
to see your office. Masha Allah (Whatever God wills). God has blessed
you with a high position.”
“Sir, please take a seat.”
Settling in her seat, she responded:
“All of it happened because of you. Had you not been there, I wouldn’t
have been here.”
111 www.inzaar.org
“You are being modest. You are hardworking and capable. It is also
really great of you to remember me even after attaining such a senior
position. Otherwise, there were a lot of other students we helped.”
“You really helped me in my education. But, much more than that,
you arranged for the treatment of my father. I can never forget your
kindness.”
“When she mentioned that, Waqar felt like telling her about Waqar’s
mother’s sickness. However, he remembered his promise and
decided to only talk about his job.”
“OK. So, tell me, if ever in my life, I need your help, would you do it?”
“Whatever I can do, I most certainly will.”
Isra committed without any hesitation.
“I have a friend. He is competent and urgently needs a job. Of course,
I can get him a job elsewhere too, but his qualifications and
requirements warrant that he gets an excellent job. If you do that, it
will be a personal favour to me.”
“What can he do? What are his skills?”
“He is an MBA from the same institution you did it from. He has
experience of working in senior positions. He can work at any
management level.”
“Then I will try to get him a position as per his qualifications and your
intent. However, it may not be possible to get him a permanent job
right away as there is no suitable position vacant at this time.
112 www.inzaar.org
However, I can get him a job as a project manager on contract. I have
a project where he can work as project head reporting to me. I am
handling that project myself right now but would like to delegate it
to him. Even though I will have to go out of the way to do so, I will, as
it is for you.”
“I will never forget your help. Thanks.”
“ Please don’t say that. I am indebted to you and will always be.”
============

“One more thing, Sir.”
Closing the file, Isra addressed Azhar, her boss. She continued after
discussing other issues.
Azhar looked at her questioningly.
“Sir, the last project I discussed today is quite important for our
Company.”
“Yes, I know,” Azhar replied.
“I have a lot of other responsibilities. So, I want that a project
manager is assigned to me to look after the details. That way, I will
save a lot of time for other key functions.” Isra proposed.
“You may select any senior person in the Organisation for that,”
Azhar suggested.
“Sir, you know the work pressures of Multinationals. All our staff is
overloaded. Whoever I assign for this function will not produce the
results I want. I want a new post for a project manager to be
113 www.inzaar.org
announced.”
“But we cannot create a new job just for a project,” Azhar responded
thoughtfully.
He knew the Company's policy of maximizing output with minimal
employees as they were paid very well. However, their pay scales
were less than the global multi-national compensation standards,
but when converted to local currency, they became considerable, and
people worked for such salaries like crazy. It was Azhar’s
responsibility to continue that policy. As such, there was no room for
creating a new job position.
“You are very right, Sir. However, firstly, it will be contract
employment, not a permanent position that would increase the
payroll. Secondly, you know it, Sir, that when a project ends, another
starts in our Company. They don’t come to an end.”
Isra’s logic was convincing, and then it came from her. It was difficult
for Azhar to say no.
He laughed:
“Ok. I will approve it for your convenience. Go ahead and hire
whoever you think is suitable.”
“Thanks, Sir. So nice of you.”
Satisfied, Isra got up from her seat.
============
Sitting outside Isra’s office, Waqar waited for her to call him in. He
114 www.inzaar.org
thought about the days when he used to be in his office, and people
waited to be called. Today, he was sitting and waiting outside. He
thought:
“Who knows how many times in my life I was arrogant as a boss.
Perhaps that is why I am seeing this day.”
Waqar’s line of thought was the result of his newfound sensitivity.
The glorious Quran had moulded his mind in such a way that he
counted his faults rather than his virtues. Even if a weakness did not
exist in him, he still took it as such and kept seeking forgiveness from
God. The glorious Quran had mentioned a quality of the believers
was that they constantly sought forgiveness. In extreme selfaccountability, Waqar had now become a living example of the same.
Truth be told, Waqar had always been a better human being. It was
something else that when a man achieved a lot, he forgot to
remember God. Waqar had also spent his early life in that state of
negligence. Business and Sonia were the only two preferences of his
life. First Sonia left his life, and then the business. But as a result, he
got rid of that negligence as well. For having led a life of negligence,
he had sought forgiveness of God Almighty. After that, a cruel and
severe self-accountability had become the habit that did not let
arrogance seep in him. Consequently, he had become the symbol of a
prayer of the Holy Prophet PBUH: “O my Lord, keep me small in my
eyes, and big in people’s eyes ”. He was insignificant in his eyes, but
those around him held him in high esteem.
Waqar waited for a long time. Isra was very busy, and he did not have
an option but to wait. So, he sat there, remembering God and
remembering the day when every person had to be presented in the
court of Almighty God and wait for the decision about his eternal life.
The glorious Quran had moulded his way of thinking on those lines.
115 www.inzaar.org
He remembered God, his magnificence, his perfection and mastery,
remembered the tribulations of the Hereafter in every worldly
difficulty, thanked God in every comfort and prayed for entry in
Paradise.
In a while, a girl approached him. She was Isra’s secretary.
“Sir, Madam Isra would like to see you now.”
He got up and, walking behind her, entered the room. He was looking
at the floor. Sidra addressed Isra:
“Madam, he is Mr Waqar Ahmed.”
Isra looked at him closely. He was a middle-aged person, looking
down, streaks of grey in beard and hair., He appeared to be a
simpleton entirely unsuitable for a multi-national environment. Isra
rejected him at first sight. However, she had given her word to
Azmat. Had he not recommended, she would have never hired
someone like him.
As her secretary left the office, Isra looked at Waqar.
“Please sit down.”
Thanking her, Waqar tried to sit down, but he looked at her first. For
a moment, he felt as if someone had punched him hard. Having come
back to life and facing him was Sonia.
He looked down again. He knew she was not Sonia, she was Isra. Her
looks were different, but her style was exactly the same as Sonia's.
He felt like getting up and running away. The grievous wounds of
116 www.inzaar.org
Sonia’s departure that had taken all those years to heal started
bleeding again. Nevertheless, he was helpless.
It is the law of ordeals. Those who tread the path of God have to
undergo a test time and time again. If the tests are not there, the
human soul starts to die. God does not want those he likes to die. That
is why he strikes on their souls again and again. That hit initiates the
harp of the heart, whose rapturous tune brings the believer closer to
God. However, all that happens much later. When a person receives
that hit, it smashes him just like a hammer hit does. In that one
moment, Waqar had crumbled too. The festering wound of Sonia’s
departure the time had healed after so long had been scratched and
made afresh by Isra.
However, Isra was totally unaware of his feelings and sentiments.
She started the conversation like a boss.
“Mr Waqar Ahmed, I will be candid. There was no need to hire you,
but I could not say no to Sir Azmat. You are here only because of him.
Now you have to prove your worth. If you do, I will try for your
permanent placement. Otherwise, you will be let go without any
consideration.”
She had authority in her tone. There was no inkling of politeness or
regard. Waqar did not mind her tone. He was quite familiar with it. It
was not Isra, but Sonia speaking, the same style, straightforward and
strict. Due to that very style, he used to tell Sonia that she was
inconsiderate, and she used to reply that was why she was a
successful administrator and businesswoman.
“I have understood you fully, Ma’am.”
Waqar replied her. Isra moved a file towards him:
117 www.inzaar.org
“You have to supervise this project. Go through the file. Should you
need any help, talk to my secretary, Sidra. She will also give you the
appointment letter and let you know other details of employment.”
Then she dialled Sidra’s extension:
“I am sending Waqar to you. Please show him his room.”
“Mr Waqar Ahmed.”
Waqar looked up for a moment. He realised that Isra’s features were
different, but her face cut was the same as Sonia's. The other
common feature between the two was appearance. The overall
impact of Isra’s personality, dress and way she talked were just like
Sonia's. He was lost in that comparison when he heard Isra’s voice:
“You may leave now. Sidra will show you your room.”
Waqar got up quietly and left her office.
============
Sidra took him to his room. After her departure, he sat down, holding
his head. A verse came to his mind:
All my life, after the morning prayer’s call
I went through a test after another test. That’s all.
Sonia was Waqar’s life. She took away all the good things in his life
with her when she left. Even though after discovering the glorious
Quran, he had become contented but the reason for his being against
the second marriage was that he did not want to forget Sonia.
118 www.inzaar.org
However, he did not want to remember Sonia through another girl
appearing as her reflection either. That reflection had freshened his
old wounds.
He could not run away from the job. The salary he had been offered
was better than the market. Isra had got him the maximum of what
she could. If he became permanent, it would be possible to have a
liver transplant for his mother. He could easily take a loan from the
company, and the medical benefits were quite generous.
He was double-minded for some time and then started reviewing the
Quran in his mind. He always received the guidance he needed for
his life there. After thinking a bit, he got the reply:
“Everyone has to taste death, and We test you through bad and good
(situations) with a trial, and to Us you are to be returned.”
(Surah Al-Anbiya , Chapter 21, Verse 35)
Taking a difficulty as a difficulty and considering a problem a
problem, one cannot face the circumstances correctly. However, one
is encouraged if the problem is taken as a test and a life routine. The
glorious Quran was providing him with that point of view. Whatever
was happening to him was a test. Here, difficulty and comfort were
together. So, he had to be thankful for the comfort and patiently face
the difficulty.
His mother’s ailment was a difficulty, but as a consequence of that
difficulty, the change he had undergone that had made him agree to
accept a job was a comfort. Getting a good job without any significant
effort was a comfort, but the appearance of Isra as a reflection of
Sonia was a difficulty.
119 www.inzaar.org
When Waqar thought from that angle, no difficulty remained a
difficulty, and no comfort remained a comfort either. He had to
concentrate on his reaction instead of the difficulties and comforts.
Comfort should not make him negligent, and difficulty should not
dishearten him. That is what he had to do. That was the name of life.
But life itself was a journey towards God. Waqar had to go through
that journey in a way that when he arrived in the court of his Master,
he should be there with an outstanding personality, not as an
ungrateful or impatient person.
He thanked God, who had provided him guidance through the
glorious Quran. He was totally satisfied and at peace now. Picking up
the project file, he started going through it.
============
“Guys, Madam Isra has inducted her own candidate. I thought that
since the new position had been announced, we would get a chance.”
Jamal used his fork to take a bite. The office colleagues, Isra’s
secretary Sidra, Jamal, Anam and Rabiah had gathered for lunch. All
of them reported to Isra. Even though there were other employees in
the department, they reported to her directly and were good friends.
“Sidra, Tell us what’s the scoop? You know everything.”
Anam asked Sidra, patting her on the shoulder.
“No, buddy, there is nothing to report. There is a gentleman named
Azmat. Madam respects him a lot. Even if he comes without an
appointment, she meets him right away and welcomes him with
great respect.
“Who is Azmat?” Rabia was curious to know.
120 www.inzaar.org
“Either he is a friend of her father or someone very close to her. I
don’t really know.”
Sidra replied with a shrug.
“Hey, guys, who cares? I lost our chance. Otherwise, I was fully
qualified for the position. After all, I am senior to all of you.”
Jamal commented with a hint of regret and some pride.
“Yes, but now all of us seniors have to support Waqar. It is an order
from Madam Isra. A bit of slack, and she will chew our heads.”
Anum was the one to speak this time.
“I wonder how Madam Isra has reached such a high position at such
a young age.”
Rabia commented on Isra with envy.
“Rabia dear, hard work, talent and tremendous capability to reach
objectives. That’s the key to Madam’s success.
Sidra replied Rabia promptly.
“And Madam’s good looks have nothing to do with it?”
Jamal guffawed, laughingly crassly, leading to a jab from Sidra.
“Don’t talk nonsense. Everybody is afraid of her, including the big
boss Azhar. She keeps everyone at a distance. Nobody dares to take
liberties with her.”
121 www.inzaar.org
Even after listening to her, Jamal kept laughing obstinately.
“But I would still say that the day Madam Isra smiles at any man, he
will be rolling at her feet.”
“That is why Madam does not smile. And when she does, she has such
awe in her eyes that nobody dares to misinterpret it.”
Anum agreed with Sidra this time. Rabia also admonished Jamal.
“Yes, Jamal. You are casting baseless aspersions on Madam. She has
progressed purely on merit. She does not do anything against merit.”
“Hey, guys, all of you are after me for nothing. I was just joking.
Otherwise, I know Madam’s temperament. But all this talk of
deciding on merit, it has come to an end with Waqar.”
“How’s that?” Rabia questioned.
“Should I tell you?”
Jamal asked, looking at Sidra questioningly. She remained quiet. She
was the one who had told him something about Waqar he was about
to disclose. Jamal moved closer to Rabia and Anum and whispered
confidingly:
“The point is that Waqar’s CV does not show any job for the last few
years. He has started working after a long break. I don’t think He
would be able to handle such an important project.”
“Oh, I see.”
122 www.inzaar.org
Anum could only say that. Rabia also pursed her lips and
commented:
“Oh, so Madam has created a problem for herself this time.”
Jamal chuckled.
“That is why they say recommendation is an awful thing.”
Talking about Waqar and Madam, they had almost finished their
lunch. Then, an office clerk approached them:
“Except Madam Sidra, Mr Waqar Ahmed has asked the three of you
to see him after lunch.”
“Let’s go, guys. The new boss has called. Now, we have to put up with
him too.”
With the last disparaging comment, Jamal got up.
============

Waqar settled in the new job the very first week. Nothing was
complicated for him. He had run a business empire, whereas it was a
small project. He just had to adjust to the new environment. That he
did quite briskly.
He had a whole team to work on the project. They were under Isra,
but since he was heading the project on her behalf, he had received
full support from them. Consequently, everything was running
smoothly.
123 www.inzaar.org
However, there were a couple of elements that posed a problem. One
was the jealousy of those working with him as he had been directly
inducted as their boss. An odd person such as Jamal initially came
across quite negatively, but Waqar changed his and others’ negative
attitude into positivity by his impeccable manners and wisdom.
Unnecessary arguments, one-upmanship and overawing
subordinates were not his management style. Instead, he made it
easy for them to work, spoke to them nicely, and encouraged and
praised them when it was due. As such, people started liking him.
============
The second problem was the atmosphere there. Waqar did not like
the multi-national environment at all. Most of the employees were
girls who donned jeans, pants, shirts and sleeveless tops. Though his
wife had died after ten years of married life, that did not become a
problem for him directly because of the way he viewed women; he
looked at them casually, not noticing them even when seeing them.
He always glanced casually without noticing their features and
contours. Even if his eyes saw something objectionable, he erased
that image from his mind; with that approach, a person did not face
a moral issue, nor did Satan overpower him. However, that
atmosphere lay heavy on his pious nature. However, after so many
years, he had trained himself to the extent that no amount of beauty
could entice his eyes nor pollute his heart. That piety of soul was the
asset of his life.
Waqar lived in a society where men were not trained in modesty.
They were not taught to control their eyes. Instead, they lost their
temper if they were advised to control their eyes. They took it to be
entirely the responsibility of women. It resulted from understanding
the religion while keeping away from the Quran. However, it was the
truth about that society.
124 www.inzaar.org
Consequently, if an inch of a lady’s body was exposed, the shameless
eyes hungered to see and enjoy it whether they were the eyes of a
veiled woman, a part of their body inadvertently exposed during
their movements, or a body draped in tight and revealing attire. Such
men thought it was their right to gawk at them. Not only that, they
never missed the slightest opportunity to touch them and enjoy that
touch. However, Quran had taught Waqar that God Almighty knew
the cheating of eyes and secrets of the heart. When he was always
with a person, there was no question of disobeying him. And God had,
before addressing the women, asked men to control their eyes and
gender-related sentiments.
He had only one purpose of life now, i.e., disobedience of God must
not happen at any point or place. Every day, when leaving for the
office, he renewed his resolve that he would not show weakness for
even a moment from any angle, and that resolve used to rejuvenate
his soul.
===============
As Waqar sat in his office, Azmat entered his room one day. He got
up and welcomed him.
“Assalam Alaikum, Azmat. How are you? You here?”
“Walaikum uss Salam, Sir. I came to meet Isra and thought I should
meet you too.”
“Great. Welcome to my office. Why are you standing? Please take a
seat.”
Azmat sat down. Waqar asked:
“Tea or Coffee?”
125 www.inzaar.org
“Nothing. I just had tea with Isra. She is quite satisfied with your
performance. The truth is that she has hired you in such a high
position on her personal responsibility. It is God’s blessing that she
is a Director, and the GM considers her very important. Otherwise, it
would not have been possible.”
“No doubt God was very kind and made Isra a source for it. I pray for
her from the depth of my heart. But ….”
Waqar stopped, saying something.
“But what? Sir. If you have a problem, please let me know. I will talk
to Isra.”
“No. I don’t have a problem. Isra has a problem.”
As Azmat looked at him questioningly, Waqar continued:
“do you remember Sonia?”
“How can I forget her.”
“Doesn’t Isra remind you of Sonia?”
Azmat thought for a few moments and then replied:
“You are right, now that you have drawn my attention to it. Since I
have been seeing her for quite some time, I had the same old image
of hers in my mind. However, she now really looks like Sonia.”
“I am not talking about her appearance. Even though that is also
there, I mean her approach towards life.”
126 www.inzaar.org
“I am sorry. I didn’t get this point.”
Azmat nodded in negative.
“My assessment is that she is a good girl as far as her attitude is
concerned. However, like Sonia, she has also been afflicted with
negligence.”
“What kind of negligence? Isra is truly a very capable girl.”
“I am not talking about the capability of this world. I am referring to
the negligence towards God and meeting him. One afflicted with it
moves far away from the path to Paradise. I could not do anything for
Sonia. I wish I could do something for her.”

“Sir, what you are saying is correct. However, in my opinion,
everyone is responsible for his or her conduct. Isra is not a child to
be told such things. If she does not care about God and the Hereafter,
you are not responsible for it either.”
“You are quite correct. I don’t know why sometimes I think God made
her life in this world through me, but seeing her Hereafter being
endangered through negligence really hurts me. God forbid her
negligence becomes the cause of her severe accountability on the
Doomsday. Negligence puts a person on the way to Hell. However,
let’s leave it at that. How are you doing?”
Waqar moved away from that discussion. After that, they talked
about other matters, and Azmat left after some time.
============
Waqar was briefing Isra on the Project’s progress. She was listening
127 www.inzaar.org
to him quietly. When he had finished, she replied:
“OK. You have understood the subject as I had explained. You will
lead the project from here on. If you encounter a problem, you may
contact me. However, report the daily progress to me without fail.”
“OK. Rest assured, you will not have any complaint, God willing.”
“OK. You may leave now.”
When Waqar got up and took a few steps to leave, she asked from
behind:
“Waqar.”
He stopped and turned to listen to her.
“I hope you are not having any problem here.”
Waqar smiled at her, saying so.
“God has not made this world so that there are no problems here. It
has been made so we continue to perform our functions despite the
problems.”
“Waqar, I am not talking about the world. I am referring to the office.”
“Thank God, everything is OK.”
“Good. You may go.”
Waqar left. After he had departed, Isra put her head on the headrest.
She had a lot of workload in the department. However, Waqar’s
128 www.inzaar.org
arrival had provided her relief. It was a complicated project, and she
had worked on it for some time. But now, the entire responsibility
was on Waqar. So, his presence had proved to be quite a boon for her.
She had not formed a definite opinion about Waqar’s capabilities and
performance as the final report of his work had not arrived. Still, she
was satisfied with him as a person. Isra stayed amongst men most of
the time. She was inwardly afraid of men. To hide her fear, she had
become apparently quite stern, but she used to get tired of that
posture. Yet, for some unknown reason, she had felt a difference in
the case of Waqar. She never felt afraid of him. Instead, she felt
somewhat safe when he was around.
The reason was probably that men always dealt with women as the
weaker gender. But Waqar always dealt with her as a person rather
than a woman. Isra noted that he had the same attitude towards
women. Consequently, Isra and perhaps other women also felt
comfortable with Waqar.
And then, Waqar’s personality was stable, peaceful and confident.
Even though Isra did not like his religious bend in discussions, she
felt that the decision to employ Waqar was correct to a great extent,
and she felt his presence was beneficial from all angles.
============
One day, When Waqar returned from work, he found Azmat in the
living room.
“Sir, returning from office, I thought I should ask about your mom’s
health. That way, I will be able to meet you too.”
Azmat explained the reason for his visit.
129 www.inzaar.org
“Thanks so much. Mom’s treatment is continuing. If God Almighty
helps, I will try to take her for treatment abroad. It is only the first
month of my job. When the project is completed, I hope to talk about
the future.”
“Yes, I know you cannot talk about your mom’s treatment right at the
beginning of your job. I also want that your position is secured before
I talk to Isra about it.”
“I am also waiting for that time, and that is the only reason I am going
through the burden of employment.”
“I have a fairly good idea, Sir. It is a difficult nut to crack for you.”
“Yes, a job is against my grain, and perhaps a bigger problem is that
I don’t get any time for reading. However, looking after mom is most
important.”
“Sir, is reading necessary for you?”
“No, it is not necessary but has become a habit. But earlier, I used to
study for a specific purpose.”
“What was that purpose. If I may ask?”
“I am searching, through reading, the answer to a question. The
question is: Why the glorious Quran has been left out of the
intellectual and practical lives of the Muslims?”
“Yes, I remember you had told me about it quite a few years ago. So,
have you found the answer to your question?
130 www.inzaar.org
“I have got the answer to a great extent. I have read and listened to
several scholars. I have also gone through innumerable books and
the history of earlier nations and their prophets. More than that,
making the glorious Quran my life, I have delved upon each word.
Primarily, I don’t want to find the logic and arguments for the ideas
in my mind. Instead, I want to know what my Lord is saying. Having
gone through all those stages, I have discovered the fundamental
cause of this problem.”
“And what is the reason for that?”
“See, it is a complicated topic, having many scholarly angles.
However, since you are not in .to such matters, I will try to explain it
in simple terms.”
“Please do.”
Azmat exclaimed.
Waqar picked up a writing pad from the nearby table; taking his pen,
he drew a long line on a blank page and asked Azmat.
“What is it?”
“It’s a long line.”
“OK. What would you say if I ask you to shorten it without touching
it?”
“That is not possible. It will have to be either erased or cut to shorten
it.”
“The Holy Quran is also such a line. No one can cut it, and no one can
131 www.inzaar.org
erase it. It cannot be changed, altered or increased. It is so because
Quran is a book that God has promised to protect.”
“Yes. I know that.”
“But it can happen.”
While saying that, Waqar drew a few more lines next to the existing
line. Some were equal in length and some larger than the first line.
“See, now I have made the first line smaller and also unimportant
without touching it. Now it is just a line amongst many other lines.
You cannot take away the credit of it being the first line. You can also
not say that it has been changed, altered or modified. Yet, what has
practically happened to it is obvious. Now it is not of any special
significance.”
“Interesting. Very Interesting.”
Azmat could only express his astonishment.
“This is what has happened to Quran and its call for faith and
righteousness. Nobody denies the Quran nor defies its importance.
No one differs from the Quran’s call for faith and righteousness
either. But practically nobody is willing to accept it as the basis of
faith and the foundation of salvation.”
“I see.”
Azmat murmured.
“And that is the answer to that question. That is why the glorious
Quran and its fundamental message have become irrelevant to
132 www.inzaar.org
Muslims' intellectual and practical lives. The reason is that Muslims
have ideologically accepted that the glorious Quran is the
fundamental and the most important book of faith. Still, they have
practically started considering many other things equal to or even
more important than the glorious Quran.
Whereas the reality is that whatever is available in the world in the
name of religion, nothing compares to Quran. What else is there that
God has promised to protect? What else is there about which it is said
that falsehood cannot enter it from the front nor from the back? Is
there anything else called guidance for humanity and the faithful, or
has been described as the measure to weigh and the standard for
evaluating other things? What is there about which it has been said
that there is no doubt in it being the dialogue of God Almighty? What
else is there about which you can say that God speaks in it? Is there
anything? There is nothing.”
Waqar continued the explanation passionately.
“Therefore, the day Muslims practically accept the principle that the
glorious Quran is over and above everything, that it is a
representative of the God and his holy prophet PBUH, and nothing is
superior to it, that day the glorious Quran will regain its rightful
position in their religious philosophy and practical lives and the day
that happens, Muslims will dominate the world again and will be
successful in the Hereafter as well.”
“It means that your hard work of many years has not been wasted.
You have told me something worthy and important.”
“Azmat, after years of studies, I have concluded that the glorious
Quran is the true light. After the end of prophethood, it was not
unfathomable that God would not arrange for the continued
133 www.inzaar.org
guidance of humans. So, after my lord Muhammad PBUH, no human
being will arrive to provide guidance. It is only Quran now. The
glorious Quran is a manifestation of God’s attribute of speech. It is as
if God, while speaking, is present amongst us. God has chosen its
words. It is the protected dialogue. It tells us about the destination as
well as the way, and most importantly, it tells us that just like nobody
is important compared to God, similarly, nothing else is important
compared to the word of God. It has been repeatedly asserted in the
glorious Quran, and the holy Prophet PBUH emphasised it as:“The best
amongst you are the ones who learn the Quran and teach it.”
On hearing that, Azmat questioned:
“Sir, why do we not hear it from any pulpit, in a religious programme
or read it in a book on religion?”
“Your contention is correct to some extent. Unfortunately, the
majority of people do not propagate it. However, it is not that nobody
is recounting it. Some are still doing so. However, the problem is that
the general masses are not interested in what they say. See, in God’s
world, if some entice you in the wrong direction, there are others as
well who invite you to the right path. But people only listen to those
who call towards the worldly benefit or the superficial.
Azmat nodded in agreement.
“Another problem is that the way Quran calls to follow does not
involve any thrill, nor does it lead to any intellectual discovery. On
the contrary, there are demands of sacrifice, patience, good deeds
and other moral stipulations. It is hard to practise them whereas
people always look for the easy way. Consequently, they put this call
of the Quran aside, get busy changing the world, or call towards
communions, incantations, change of appearance or such superficial
134 www.inzaar.org
acts. The moral expectations sought by Quran in a human being are
quite hard to practice. To live a life according to those moral
standards is like picking up an ember in the bare hand. However, if a
person nurtures the courage to do so, he starts enjoying it. He
develops a liking for good deeds, and no hardship can thwart him
from that path, even if he is split in two with a saw.”
Waqar stopped. Azmat agreed:
“You are absolutely right, Sir. I have seen you doing all those good
deeds. I think another person could never do so. Spending so much
on others, serving humanity to such an extent, infinite patience, such
good behaviour – very difficult. It is very difficult, Sir.”
Waqar did not reply for some time. Then, staring upwards, he said:
“I don’t know to what extent have I become the human being as
required by the Quran. However, my whole life will be spent in that
pursuit now. I have God’s book and his Prophet’s PBUH exemplary life,
which is again the practical manifestation of the glorious Quran. Only
God knows how far have I succeeded, but I don’t have any purpose
in my life other than that.”
As he finished, Azmat got up, put his hand on Waqar’s shoulder, and
asserted:
“I am a witness to that, Sir; you have succeeded in your objective
from every perspective. If my God wills, my Lord will honour you on
the Doomsday and will also bestow success on you in every test in
this world as well.”
“Waqar placed his hand on Azmat’s hand affectionately and
murmured:
135 www.inzaar.org
“I don’t know how many more tests are still there.”
While saying that, little did he know he had to face yet another backbreaking test immediately.
============
Isra was reviewing the progress report submitted by Waqar and
appreciating his work. The report was extremely comprehensive.
Even if she had made it, perhaps she could not have made it that well.
It was a report by someone who had an in-depth understanding and
knowledge of every facet of the business.
“You have made an excellent report. I don’t think I can add anything
to it. In a month’s short time, you have understood and analysed
everything very well. The recommendations are also appropriate.
Plans ‘B’ and ‘C’ have also been included. You have a great business
vision. You should have your own business.”
Only a half-smile appeared on Waqar’s face. How could he tell her
doing business was his second nature? He and Sonia had taken their
business to soaring heights in a short period.
The reason behind Isra’s wholehearted praise for him had another
reason as well. She had initially taken him to be a simpleton, perhaps
incapable of handling a responsibility she had assigned to him. She
had it in mind to pay back Azmat for his favours. By hiring Waqar,
she had perhaps re-paid that favour to some extent. She thought
Waqar would not be able to live up to the responsibility, and she was
concerned she had hired an unqualified person on personal
recommendation. However, after seeing today’s progress report, she
was delighted. Waqar had done wonderfully well.
136 www.inzaar.org
“Waqar, I was under pressure relative to this project till today, but I
am totally relaxed now, and I leave it entirely on you. If it is
successful, I will try to have the Board make your position
permanent. People like you are assets for any organisation. I will talk
to Germany today and finalise their arrival date, so the work on the
project is commenced at the earliest. This project will be a feather in
my cap.”
Saying that, she picked up the phone.
============
Isra knocked on Waqar’s door, but he was praying. When she did not
get an answer, she entered his office. Seeing him praying, she turned
around to return, but then, on second thought, she came in and sat
on the chair.
She had spoken to the team in Germany. However, the date finalised
was much earlier than her expectation since that team was leaving
for Japan, and the German team leader had decided to stop over for
a day on the way there. As a consequence, the workload had
increased on her team. Now it was up to Waqar to complete
everything in that short period. She had come to Waqar’s room out
of the norm to discuss that. Now she wanted to complete the
discussion before returning to her office.
While sitting there, she saw the glorious Quran lying on Waqar’s
table. She did not like that anybody would recite Quran in the office.
To her, the office was only for work.
She picked up the Quran. It was underlined in several places. On the
side margins, there were many notes in small writing. She tried to
137 www.inzaar.org
read one. It said: The women are the greatest gift of God and the most
demanding test at the same time.
She turned another page. Another note said: “There is no greater
crime than living a life neglecting to remember God, as a human
being commits every other sin after committing it.”
Another page said: “Whoever lives for the world ultimately dies.”
As she was busy doing that, she heard Waqar clearing his throat. She
looked at him. He was quietly settling in his chair. Isra intended first
to ask him not to read the Quran in the office. But, instead, she asked
a question:
“Whoever lives for the world ultimately dies. It looks like a wrong
sentence. Every human being dies.”
Waqar replied softly:
“Those who live for the Hereafter never die.”
“This is no logic. After all, even sinners will also be brought back to
life in the Hereafter.”
“But a life of punishment is no life. Isn’t it? What a life would it be
burning in Hellfire?”
Isra kept quiet. Waqar felt he had helped build that girl's life in the
world; maybe he would succeed in creating in her a desire for the
Hereafter as well. As such, he expanded on the subject, much against
his habit:
“If you allow me, may I ask if you are sure you will go to Paradise?”
138 www.inzaar.org
“I have never thought about it.”
“Please find the time to think about it some time since it is a given
that you will be either in Paradise or Hell after a few decades. What
to talk of the old, even many young, good looking, powerful have also
left the world at the zenith of their lives. You and I have no exemption
from this principle.”
While saying it, he had Sonia in his mind. But Isra did not want to
discuss this subject anymore. She had neither thought about
Doomsday nor death. Like the majority, God had always been a
problem-solving machine for her. If a predicament arose, pray to
him, and when it was solved, forget about him. She never had the
time to think about being presented to him, her accountability,
Paradise or Hell. She responded tersely:
“Let’s forget about this topic. The office is not for these things. I came
to tell you that the German team is arriving in three days. You should
complete your presentation before that. You will have to brief them.
I hope you will be able to do it. Are you fluent in English?”
Isra asked in English. Waqar nodded and replied in English too.”
“Please don’t worry. I can speak English fluently, and German too.
Your visitors will not be disappointed in meeting me.”
“O wow. That’s great news. OK. Then it would be best if you made
your presentation in the German language. However, make an
English version for me too. I want that when you make the
presentation in German, the local Directors should be going through
it in English.”
139 www.inzaar.org
“OK. But three days are not enough for that. I will have meetings with
several staff members to get the data. And report and presentation
are time-consuming too. It will be very difficult to do all that in such
a short time.”
“Then, let’s leave out the English presentation. We will do that later.
Just make the presentation in German. And that only you can do.
There is no other choice.”
Isra’s tone was decisive. She was excited with the idea of the
presentation and report in German as it would have a more
favourable impact on them.
“It will be done. I will have to take the documents home every day
and work till late.”
“No problem. You may take the documents home. But remember, I
will not put up with any mistakes.”
Isra said that in a commanding voice and got up.
============
The next three days were hard on Waqar. He constantly worked in
the office, and also till late at home. He had decided to make the
English presentation before the German presentation. When Isra had
asked for it, Waqar had said no. However, later on, he resolved to do
both. Computer Presentations were not in vogue at that time, and the
presentations were made and shown on slide projectors.
Waqar burnt the midnight oil and finalised the presentation in hard
copy. He completed it late in the evening of the third day. The
presentation he had to make in German was more critical. The
140 www.inzaar.org
German team had arrived that evening. Isra had told him that the
meeting would start at 9. a.m. sharp and the German team would
leave for Japan after lunch. So, it was crucial to be punctual.
Waqar worked in the office till late that day. He prepared the English
translation first. It was pretty late by then. He decided to make the
German language presentation at home. He was conscious that Jamal
and other staff were also present in the office because of him.
Isra had gone home. Before going, she had advised Jamal to take the
German presentation from Waqar and set it up in the conference
room. It was late at night now. Waqar had finished his work and
asked Jamal to come over. He appeared soon and stood there.
“Jamal, there is still some work left. It is quite late. I think we should
go home now.”
“Sir, what would happen to the presentation then. Madam asked me
to set up the German language presentation in the conference room
before I leave.”
“But that would take a lot of time. I will have to be awake till late for
that. However, I have completed the English translation. Madam Isra
has left; otherwise, I would have given it to her myself. I am leaving
its slides in my room. I will give them to her in the morning. I am also
taking all the reports home as I have to use them in making the
German language slides. God willing, I will come before time. You can
set them up in the conference room. There will be no problem. If I
stay here till late at night, all of you will have to stay as well.”
“I think you are right, Sir.”
Jamal agreed with him. It suited him too, as he could leave for home.
141 www.inzaar.org
Enthused with the good news of going home, he did not give much
importance to the English slides that Waqar had told him about. For
him, the German language presentation was important. As such, he
chuckled:
“It was a great idea of Madam Isra that the presentation should be in
the German language. It will have a great impact on the visiting team.
But Sir, it is to your credit and talent that you know so many
languages.”
“It is Allah’s blessing. You may leave now. I am also leaving. Tell
others to go home as well.”
Waqar had to say that, as Isra had strictly instructed the staff not to
leave as long as Waqar was in the office.
Waqar put the English language slides in his drawer, and, having
collected the stuff he required, he got up to leave for home.
============
All hell had broken loose in the office since morning. Isra had turned
the entire office upside down. She had picked up the German
delegation from the hotel and had reached the office around 9 a.m.
On arrival, she got the shocking news that Waqar had not arrived yet.
Sidra told her that she had constantly called his home, but nobody
picked up the phone. Mobile phones did not exist then; therefore, it
was difficult to know Waqar‘s whereabouts.
After a while, Isra called Jamal and asked him to use the company car
and go to Waqar’s home to know where he was. Waqar’s home was
quite far. It was 11 a.m. by the time he returned. He broke the bad
news that the house was locked, and there was no one there to advise
where Waqar had disappeared. The neighbours also did not know
142 www.inzaar.org
why the house was locked.
Having heard that, Isra was shattered. The delegation from the head
office and all local executives of the company were present. Isra had
trusted Waqar blindly. All information, reports and presentation
were with him. Nothing could be done. She had to handle the
situation.
Gathering strength, she got up and went to Azhar’s office, where
everybody had been waiting for her and Waqar since morning. She
apologised and explained that the project manager could not come
to the office due to an emergency and the presentation would have
to be postponed. However, in the eyes of the senior management, it
was not Waqar’s but Isra’s failure. Isra was forced to accept the
entire responsibility. Azhar was very upset, and he had openly
expressed his displeasure to her. Isra knew he was right. By
defending her at that time, he could not tarnish his own position.
Somehow, Isra provided some of the project details verbally.
However, in the absence of details and numbers, it was nothing more
than a verbal dialogue that did not impress anyone.
After lunch, the delegation left for the airport. Azhar left to drop
them. Isra, embarrassed due to the fiasco, returned to her office.
============
Isra sat in her room, holding her head. She had never undergone a
loss of face like that in her whole life. She had never experienced such
a failure either. She was highly agitated about trusting Waqar so
much.
She picked up the phone and called Sidra.
143 www.inzaar.org
“Please come to my office and bring all team members too.”
After a while, Sidra, Jamal, Anum and Rabia were in. Tension was
evident from their faces. They knew whatever happened would
negatively impact Isra. However, none of them was at fault. Waqar
was heading the project, and Isra was the one who had allowed him
to take the documents home.
As soon as they had entered, Isra asked Sidra.”
“Draft a termination letter.”
Sidra knew who it was for? However, she still asked:
“Who would it be for, Madam?”
“Do I need to tell you who it is for? Are you also out of your mind?”
Isra vented her anger on her.
On hearing that, Sidra walked out. As soon as she had left, Isra looked
at the three. She was staring at them angrily.
“None of you was good enough to make the presentation in the
absence of Waqar?”
“Madam, our job was to assist Sir Waqar. Project details were only
known to either him or you.”
Anum said timidly. Isra virtually exploded:
“Do not mention his name to me. I had told him to make a
144 www.inzaar.org
presentation in English. Had he done so, I would have managed it
somehow. The damage would have been controlled. If he were that
responsible, he would not have disappeared the way he did.”
Isra’s sentence hit Jamal like a bomb. He had forgotten that Waqar
had told him that the English presentation was in his office. Had he
given that information to Isra, her reputation would not have been
tarnished.
He realised Isra had just asked for Waqar’s termination letter. He
visualised the same fate for himself. His face turned pale.
Silence ensued for some time, followed by Isra’s voice, fuming:
“You may all go and learn something from Waqar’s fate.”
===============
Waqar was awake for the last three nights. Due to excessive
workload, he was awake tonight too, as completing the German
presentation was his responsibility. His work finished after Fajr, the
morning prayers. There was no time to sleep as he was unsure of
getting up in time if he tried to take a nap. As such, he kept awake
and revised the presentation. Before leaving for office, he made
breakfast for his mother and him as he used to every day. After that,
the nurse would arrive and look after his mom in the day. When he
entered her room with the breakfast, he was shocked to see her lying
on the floor. She had thrown up, and it had traces of blood. Seeing
that, Waqar got alarmed. He picked her up and ran to the hospital.
She looked seriously sick. He reached the hospital, and the doctors,
seeing her condition, admitted her right away and started the
emergency treatment.
He was walking up and down the hallway outside the emergency
145 www.inzaar.org
room. His mother used to get sick but had never been in such critical
condition. He was deeply pained to realise that now that his mother
was sick, he did not have the resources to get her the proper
treatment.
Amid this worrying situation, he was also worried that his presence
was critically required in the office today. But how could he leave his
mother in that condition and go? He thought he would find a public
phone and call at work and inform Sidra of the situation.
Having thought about it, he went to the reception where there was a
phone, but a person on duty was using it. Waqar waited for a while,
but that person was not ready to finish his call. At last, Waqar had to
intervene:
“I have to make an important call.”
The person put his hand on the mouthpiece and replied rudely:
“Can’t you see I am talking right now? Come after some time.”
Waqar returned to the emergency. When he got there, the doctor was
waiting for him. He asked him to arrange blood urgently. To do so,
Waqar had to run around himself. As such, he went to a blood bank.
Their condition was that he had to donate blood first; only then they
would do so. After a lot of persuasion, he received the blood,
delivered it for his mother, and came back to donate it as required.
When he returned after that, the doctors told him his mother was
better, but she had to stay in the hospital for three days. Accordingly,
she was moved to the ward.
By that time, it was 1 p.m. Getting a break from the hospital, he
thought about the important meeting in the office again and was also
146 www.inzaar.org
aware of the situation there due to his absence. So, he reached home
as quickly as possible, picked up all the files and rushed to the office.
He was somewhat satisfied that the English presentation was in the
office, and Jamal would have given it to Isra in his absence.
============
By the time Waqar reached the office, it was already 2:30 p.m. As
soon as Sidra saw him, she said:
“Sir, where were you. I called your home several times but did not
get any reply. Madam sent Jamal to your place, but nobody was
there. You had just disappeared. Where were you?”
“Is the German team still around, or have they left?”
Rather than answering her, Waqar asked a question.
“They left at 2 p.m. Their flight was at 5 p.m.”
Without saying anything further, Waqar had started moving
towards Isra’s room when Jamal caught him on the way:
“Sir, please listen to me for a minute. It’s very important.”
“But Madam….”
“Please, Sir. Please.”
Jamal begged:
“Yes. What is it?”
147 www.inzaar.org
“Sir, please come with me.”
Waqar walked behind Jamal hesitatingly and entered his office.
When they were in the room, Jamal closed the door.
“What are you doing, Jamal?”
“Sir, you have already lost your job. Madam has got your termination
letter typed by Sidra. If you tell Madam that you had told me about
the English presentation before leaving, she will send me home too.
She is seething with anger. Please save me, Sir. Please don’t tell
Madam about it.”
Jamal was on the verge of crying.
“Why didn’t you tell her about it.”
Waqar asked.
“Sir, Madam didn’t ask, and I was so tense I forgot about it
completely. When Madam finds out you had told me about it and the
presentation was available in your office all the time, she will bite my
head off. I just found a while ago that had she got the English slides,
she would have made the presentation herself.”
Waqar thought about it for a moment. Seeing him quiet, Jamal
pleaded again:
“You have Azmat with you. Maybe Madam will reinstate you if he
requests. But I have no one, just my family.”
Waqar smiled on hearing that and murmured:
148 www.inzaar.org
“I have my God with me. I don’t care about anybody else.”
Then, patting Jamal on his shoulder, he said:
“Don’t worry about it. I won’t tell Madam anything about you. You
will have your job.”
After saying that, Waqar left for Isra’s room.
============
When he entered, Isra was sitting quietly. She didn’t say anything on
seeing him, just sat there motionless.
Waqar walked close to her, put the files in front and said:
“I am sorry. I got late. Actually….”
“Please don’t say anything further, as there is no use saying it. I had
accepted someone’s recommendation for the first time in my life, and
you proved that my decision was wrong.”
She called Sidra’s number and said:
“Sidra, please come over.”
When she put the phone down, Waqar started again:
“I admit that I made a mistake.”
“I asked you not to say a word.”
Isra screamed. She could be heard even in the corridor. Sidra, who
149 www.inzaar.org
was opening the door to come in, got scared. She had never seen Isra
so angry. She entered timidly. Isra, ignoring her arrival, addressed
Waqar:
“Waqar, I have never faced such humiliation in my whole career. You
are a highly irresponsible person who does not care about the favour
anybody does for him. You are a person who is neither conscious of
his responsibilities nor of others who have favoured him. You are
entirely unsuitable for any important position. You are not worthy of
being favoured at all. You have returned Azmat and my favours
shabbily.”
Isra’s voice and tone were severe. Waqar stood quiet. After years of
training, he had learnt to control himself under any circumstances.
Then she addressed Sidra:
“Take charge from him. Take over all the files and give him his
termination letter.”
Then she addressed Waqar sternly:
“Get out. I don’t want to see your face ever again.”
Waqar kept quiet on this insult. Sidra took the files and could only
say:
“Sir, please….”
Waqar turned to leave, thought about something and turned. Then,
facing Isra, he said:
“Please forgive me, if possible. You faced a lot of trouble because of
150 www.inzaar.org
me. I am very sorry.”
Instead of replying, Isra turned her face away.
Waqar walked out quietly.
============
Waqar’s mother returned home after a couple of days. She was
feeling better. Waqar was with her all the time, serving her. Then,
one day, she asked him:
“Son, why are you not going to your office?”
“Mom, your sickness is more important. Consider me on leave from
the office.”
“Son, how long will you be on leave? This sickness will be an ongoing
thing from now. You should go to the office. I will recover shortly.”
I will start going soon; please don’t worry about it.”
Thinking about something, he added:
“I am thinking of leaving this job for some time. Then, when you feel
better, I will join again.”
“No way, son. How is that going to work?”
She questioned worriedly.
She thought that with great difficulty, Waqar had started working. If
he left his job, it would be a step backwards. But Waqar kept quiet.
151 www.inzaar.org
He got up and went to his room.
============
Waqar was sitting in his room quietly. He was distraught. Doctors
had told him clearly that his mother’s condition was deteriorating.
What could he do? Had he not lost the job, he would have spoken to
Isra. In that case, there was a hope that something could be done for
the liver transplant. Now that hope was lost too. It was not easy to
get another job, and if he got it, it would not be like the earlier
position. And then, who knew how long would it take to get it and to
establish himself and arrange funds. In short, all hopes were dashed,
and potential sources had dried up.
When worries overwhelmed him, he got up, spread the prayer rug
and started praying. He prayed for a long time. When he postulated
in sajda, his eyes brimming with tears, he beseeched to God, crying:
“My lord, you know everything about me. I see my mother nearing
her death but cannot do anything except pray to you. Earlier, I had
prayed profusely for my wife, but my prayers went unanswered. O
Lord, I was rich then, but now I am a beggar in every way. O’
Sustainer, if this beggar returns with an empty bowl from your door,
he will not say anything, but what would the world say? O’ Lord,
think about what the world would say on the Doomsday that a
beggar returned empty-handed from the Lord of the Universe’s
door.”
After praying, Waqar kept weeping bitterly for a long time.
============
A few days passed. Nothing changed. Waqar’s mom had understood
that Waqar had left his job. She called Azmat, told him about it, and
152 www.inzaar.org
asked him to speak to Waqar and convince him to start working
again. Azmat visited the same evening. As soon as he arrived, he
spoke to Waqar about it:
“Sir, your mom said you have left the job?”
“Yes.”
Said Waqar. He couldn’t say anything more.
“Sir, it was a wonderful job. To get a similar position again is very,
very difficult. When I asked Isra about your performance, she praised
you and assured me that she would get your position converted to
permanent. I would say again that it is a very wrong decision and you
should change it. I will talk to Isra today.”
“No. it is not required. However, if possible, please try to find another
job for me.”
Waqar mumbled. Azmat replied immediately:
“Why some other job. Isra is like my own daughter. All I have to do is
ask, and she will re-instate you.”
“Oh no. Please don’t talk to her. She is the one who sacked me.”
“Isra sacked you?”
Azmat asked, totally surprised.
“But why? Why did she do so?”
In reply, Waqar told him the whole story, except the fiasco of Jamal.
153 www.inzaar.org
When he finished, Waqar spoke to him.
“But please, don’t talk to Isra about it because the mistake was one
hundred per cent mine.”
“But you were helpless. I worked for you for a long time. You always
gave special consideration when such a situation arose with your
employees. Isra should have done the same.”
“No. The project was critical. Isra’s position was compromised
because of me. So, whatever she did was right.”
“You are still favouring her?”
“She is correct from her standpoint. And please, no need to tell her
what relationship she had with me. It is my request to you.”
“OK. I will beg leave, then.”
“If possible, please try somewhere else. I need a job at this moment.”
Azmat nodded without saying anything.
He had decided to meet Isra at least once.
============
The phone rang. Sidra was online.
“Ma’am, Mr Azmat is here. I told him you are in a meeting, but he
insists that it is important to meet you.”
“All right. Please send him in.”
154 www.inzaar.org
“Gentlemen, we have covered most of the points and will cover the
remaining after a little while.”
“No problem, Ma’am.”
The staff members walked out. After their departure, there was a
knock on the door. Azmat entered. Isra got up to welcome him
pleasantly.
“Assalam Alaikum, Sir. Why did you bother yourself? You should
have called me.”
Isra had an idea why Azmat had visited. She had fired Waqar last
week. She had appointed Waqar on his recommendation. She could
not say no to Azmat, but she was also a principled and firm
administrator. It was not possible for her to re-instate Waqar on his
recommendation again. She had to inform Azmat about the decision,
keeping in view her relationship with him. However, she had
mentally prepared herself for that tough moment while welcoming
him.
“Walaikum us Salam. No problem. I thought I should come over
myself.”
Azmat replied somberly.
“Please have a seat.” Isra pointed at one.
When he settled in the chair, she asked:
“Tea or ….?”
155 www.inzaar.org
Azmat interrupted her.
“Have you terminated Waqar?’
Isra started her reply firmly:
“Yes. He showed extreme irresponsibility. I gave him a critical
project. A team had arrived from abroad for a meeting for that
project. However, right on the day the meeting was scheduled, he
disappeared. Neither he informed us nor did he leave any note at
home. He was the project in charge. The foreign team had flown in
only for his presentation. Solely because of him, they returned
without finalising the project. The humiliation I had to face that day,
I have never had in my whole career. I am firm on principles and
cannot tolerate such irresponsibility. He also admitted his fault.”
“Did you ask him the reason for that?”
“No. I didn’t feel it was necessary to do so. People don’t lack excuses
in our environment. Definitely, he would have one too. However, I
am not used to accepting such lame excuses. It is my principle and
also the reason for my success.”
Isra was seething. She paused for a while and said in a softer tone:
“Sir, I hold you in high respect. Please don’t recommend him. I had
hired him the first time only because of you. You had said he was
capable, responsible and needed a job too. I appointed him to such
an important position just because of you. Alas, he proved to be
extremely irresponsible. I will not do anything now that would
further harm my Company.”
Isra asserted decidedly. Azmat kept listening to her quietly. Then he
156 www.inzaar.org
got up and started walking out.
Seeing him leaving quietly, Isra realised that her tone was harsh. So,
she also got up and called him:
“Sir, I am very sorry to have disappointed you and seek forgiveness
for that. I cannot reinstate Waqar on the job, but if he is truly a needy
person, I can help him. But I will do it only and only because of you.
You have done a lot of favours to me, and I cannot forget them.”
Hearing her, Azmat stopped. He turned slowly and started looking at
Isra intently. Silence ensued for a few moments. Then, he took a few
steps towards her and queried:
“How can you help Waqar?”
“In whatever way you say….”
Isra had not completed her sentence when Azmat’s voice boomed:
“I am not asking you. I am telling you. You are not worthy enough to
help a great man like Waqar.”
Isra stood, stunned, hearing his tone and words. She had known
Azmat for the last ten years when she was a needy and helpless girl.
Even then, he had never talked to her in that tone. Where she was
today, Azmat was nothing as compared to her. Dozens of people like
him worked for her. She felt insulted hearing his words, but
controlling her anger, she said:
“You are my benefactor; as such, you can say whatever you want. I
will not mind it. But I cannot do anything for Waqar.”
157 www.inzaar.org
Hearing her, Azmat spoke softly:
“Sorry, Isra, you are the same age as my daughter. That’s why my
tone became harsh.”’
After that, he kept quiet. He wanted to say something but could not
decide whether to say or not to say those words. His face reflected
his inner turmoil.
“No problem, Sir. You are my benefactor.”
At that, Azmat decided to talk to her frankly.
“I would have perhaps gone from here quietly. But you have
repeatedly talked about favours. That is why I want to break my
promise and say what I should, firstly to lighten the burden on my
heart, and secondly, I think if you ever find out the truth, you will
never be able to forgive yourself.”
“I am sorry. I could not understand. What do you mean?”
Isra could not understand Azmat at all. So, to explain, he started
turning the pages of the past:
“Isra, God has bestowed upon you a ton of prestige and a high
position. However, there was a time when you visited our office. You
were a weak, timid and scared girl with dreams in her eyes and hopes
in her heart. You had said that the institution you had secured
admission in had very high tuition fees, and could that be arranged?
I had told you it was very difficult, nay, almost impossible, and
Madam Sonia had also told you the same.”
“Yes, I remember. But later on, Madam Sonia paid for all my
158 www.inzaar.org
educational expenses, and it was due to that I have reached this
position.”
Azmat overlooked what Isra had said.
“I still remember when you entered my boss’s room, your hands
trembled, and you had beads of sweat on your forehead. You were
finding it hard to speak. At that time, instead of making you more
nervous, a kindhearted person had encouraged you.”
Isra kept quiet. She did not remember that.
“He was the same person who approved your rejected application
against the wishes of his wife and paid for your entire educational
expenses himself.”
Isra did not know that. She was only in contact with Azmat and
Madam Sonia.
Azmat, oblivious to her emotions, continued:
“As such, the favours you are repeatedly mentioning were not done
by me, but by that person.”
Having mentioned that Azmat stopped for a while and, looking in
Isra’s eyes, disclosed:
“My dear Isra, you know who that person was? He is the same Waqar
you humiliated and kicked out from the job.”
“But….”
Isra could not say anything further. She had received a big jolt.
159 www.inzaar.org
“You would not have recognised him at all. His life has changed in the
last ten years. He also underwent internal and external changes. But,
even otherwise, you had met him only for a couple of minutes. How
could you recognise him? How could that successful magnate be your
job-seeking subordinate? How could that handsome business tycoon
be that grey-haired and bearded, middle-aged man, ready to say
goodbye to the prime of his life.”
“You should have told me all that earlier.”
Isra complained.
“He had asked me not to. However, I have not said everything. When
you were still going through your MBA, his wife Sonia died. Madam
Sonia was his wife, business partner, love, and everything else. With
her departure, Sir Waqar’s life ended. Due to his absence, his
business empire crumbled. Along with that, the scholarships to
students came to an end too. However, despite the worsened
financial situation, he did not stop your scholarship. Instead, he used
the savings he was living on to pay your educational expenses.”
Isra stood there, dumbfounded. She could not say a word.
“Not only that, the person you called ungrateful is the person the
burden of whose mountain of favours you are carrying on your
shoulders. In the last year of your education, you asked me for help
for your father’s treatment, and you wrote a letter to Madam Sonia.”
“Yes. I remember. But you just said that Madam Sonia had died.”
“Yes, but Sir Waqar was alive. In this world, truly a graveyard of the
walking and talking dead, he was perhaps the only human being truly
160 www.inzaar.org
alive. I gave him your letter. He decided to help you, and for that, he
sold his deceased wife’s jewellery so your father could live. Your
father recovered, but Sir Waqar’s financial condition worsened.”
“But you had said that some rich person had paid the expenses for
the treatment?”
Isra was on the verge of crying.
“Sir Waqar had strictly asked me not to mention his name. But please
have a heart and continue listening as I have a lot more to tell you.
Sir Waqar never did a job as it was against his grain. His financial
condition deteriorated day by day. He did not get married after
Madam Sonia either. Somehow he was barely managing things. But
then he faced a crisis that forced him to seek employment. His
mother was struck with the same ailment that your father had. But
now, no ‘Sir Waqar’ extended his hand to help him. He could not even
write a letter to anybody like you and beg for compassion and mercy.
Seeing his condition, I asked him to do a job to meet at least some of
the expenses of his mother’s treatment. I had brought him to you
thinking that you were a tree planted by him, and he would feel good
sitting in its shade. However, he had only accepted the job on the
condition that I would never tell you anything about him. However,
what happened to him here, I don’t know about you, but I am so
ashamed of myself.”
Time had made Isra quite strong. She had struggled a lot, saw her
father’s sickness and then his demise. She had looked after the
responsibilities of her sisters resolutely. Being a girl, she had faced
all kinds of difficulties in a world dominated by men and had
achieved a high position in life. She considered herself highly
successful and accomplished. But today, she realised that in the race
for achieving an exalted position and even having won, she was still
161 www.inzaar.org
a big loser. She was successful in the struggle for life, but in the test
of life, she had failed miserably.
Her legs gave in. She sat on her chair quietly, hiding her face in her
hands. She was feeling truly ashamed of herself.
Azmat, unmindful of her condition, kept going:
“And the day he could not come to the office, his mother’s condition
had become critical. He could either come to work to please you,
leaving his mother to die at home, or he could take her to the hospital.
Alas, you fired him for being guilty of trying to save his mother’s life.
And that feat was accomplished by a girl who had begged Sir Waqar
for his father’s life, and that great man had sold his deceased wife’s
jewellery and had given the amount so mercifully, so
magnanimously.
Azmat laughed sardonically and continued:
“But who am I wasting these words on? People who have stones for
hearts? Those who, using their self-made principles as reasons,
forget the elementary lessons of humanity, mercy, compassion and
sympathy? For them, progress and success in this world is
everything. To them, their problems are paramount, but they
become callously insensitive when it comes to realising the travails
of others.”
Azmat’s tone was laced with bitterness. His words pierced Isra’s
heart and conscience like arrows. What could she say in reply? She
deserved what she was getting. He continued:
“But dear Isra, please don’t hide your face or feel too bad about it. He
did not do anything for you. Whatever he did, he did for his Lord. Not
162 www.inzaar.org
only you, there are innumerable others he did a lot for, never asked
anything in return, nor reminded them of his immense favours. His
reward will only come from his Lord.”
“As far as you are concerned, please be at peace and make your
career, live a great life and tell people that whatever you have got in
life is because of your hard work, struggle, superior intelligence and
strong principles. However, when people like you die, you will come
to know that you were the most deprived and unsuccessful lot in the
world. And people like Sir Waqar will be the most honourable and
closest to God. That day, you will come to know your true worth and
also the worth of Sir Waqar’s position with his God.”
Azmat fell silent. There was pin-drop silence in the room for some
time. Then Azmat’s voice reached Isra again:
“Sir Waqar has not asked me to come here. He has no complaint
against you. He had mentioned only one thing concerning you after
having joined this employment.”
Hearing him, Isra, rubbing her eyes and face, cleared the
continuously flowing tears from her eyes and looked up. She did not
say anything but had a question in her wet, begging eyes.
“He said: God Almighty had, through me, made this girl’s world, but
alas, her Hereafter will be destroyed. I could not do anything for her
real life, the life of the Hereafter. What he had said proved to be true
word by word. The treatment you have meted out to Sir Waqar, God
will never forgive you.”
Isra did not know how to reply to that. She bowed her head in shame.
“And one last thing. Please don’t try to contact Sir Waqar. He had
163 www.inzaar.org
strictly asked me not to come to you and had taken a promise from
me never to mention a word about his favours to you. However,
when you fell into such depths of callous insensitivity, I had to stoop
low as well and break my promise to that great man. Therefore,
please do me a great favour. Never, ever try to contact Sir Waqar or
to help him. It would be better for him and his mother to die an
honourable death than to be favoured by insensitive beings like you.
God will send some angel for them. Otherwise, the angel of death will
relieve them of all their difficulties anyway.”
After that, Azmat got up and walked away without even waiting for
a reply. There was silence in the room after his departure, but a
tempest was raging in full fury in Isra’s heart. She felt like bawling
and crying but was forced to control herself. She kept fighting with
her grief, and then she picked up the phone and dialled Sidra’s
number. With great difficulty, she could only say:
“Cancel all my appointments. Ask the driver to get the car ready. I am
going home.”
============
Isra reached home and hit the bed without changing. She laid quietly
and kept thinking. She had tremendous confidence and had a high
opinion of herself as she had undoubtedly achieved outstanding
successes in her life. She always credited her achievements to her
hard work, struggle, resolve and capabilities. Whatever she wanted
in her life, she had got it. Whatever she thought about owning, she
did. At a young age, she was at the apex of her profession. However,
today she had fallen into the most bottomless pit of her life. She had
not taken a fall from a mountain; she had fallen low and had
degraded herself in her own eyes.
164 www.inzaar.org
She was not pained because she was unintentionally extremely
unjust to Waqar. On the contrary, she was grievously hurt because
he had remained quiet in reply. Had he reminded her of his vast
favours, rebuked her, and called her thankless, perhaps she would
have had some solace. But Waqar’s unfathomable patience had
shattered her completely.
Her years bygone were going through her mind. With some effort,
she recalled the first time she had gone to Waqar’s office. She did not
remember his face, only that a very handsome person was sitting
next to Madam Sonia. She had seen and concentrated on Sonia only.
In fact, Sonia’s image was etched on her mind as Sonia had such an
impressive personality, alluring and glamorous. Remembering
Sonia, she got up and looked at herself closely in the full-length
mirror. She realized that unintentionally she had been copying Sonia,
and to some extent, she had been successful in becoming like her.
What would a person go through when he loses a wife like Sonia, and
that too in the prime of her youth. Perhaps Waqar was right in
abandoning the world. How can a person whose entire Universe was
destroyed be left with any segment of this world? His business had
dissolved in thin air, but he did not stop helping Isra. He kept making
Isra’s life.
Isra wondered about the catastrophe that would have taken place if
Waqar had withdrawn his help during her education. She had no
answer to that. And it was not only the tuition fees; he had continued
to pay her other education-related expenses generously as well.
She glanced at her father’s picture lying on the side table. She
remembered the agony she had suffered when he had fallen sick,
how she had watched her father dying helplessly. She still
remembered every moment of that agony.
165 www.inzaar.org
And then Waqar had again helped her out of that agony by selling his
deceased wife’s jewellery on just one letter from her. And what did
she do in return? When Waqar became a victim of similar
circumstances, she humiliated him and threw him out of a job.
Isra felt like pulling her hair. Holding them in her fist and looking at
herself in the mirror, she murmured:
“I was not that callous and insensitive. Does success, progress,
wealth and high position make a person so?”
Then she asked herself:
“But Waqar had all of that too.”
The mirror was quiet. She asked herself another question:
“Isra, you are still an employee. He was the owner of a business
empire. Why did he not become insensitive? In comparison, on
achieving power and money, why did you change?”
Her conscience answered this time:
“No, Isra. Wealth did not change you; it only exposed you. Wealth
does not change the shallow; it takes off their veil and exposes them.
You were a lowly, mediocre human being right from the beginning -
begging when weak and inflicting cruelty on others when in power.
A shallow, low-life person always thinks about her personal interests
and herself only.”
Her conscience showered a rain of whiplashes on her.
166 www.inzaar.org
“But I am not like that.” She screamed.
“I am not like that. I have shouldered the burden of my whole family.
I sacrificed and did not marry but got my two sisters married. I
became a son to my parents and gave them a good life.”
Isra started bawling bitterly. She had a storm raging in her chest that
would not subside. She kept crying for a long time, tears flowing like
a broken watershed. Then, in between, sniffles, she asked herself:
“I was not like that. How did that change occur in me?”
At long last, she got the answer to her question. Her heart solved the
problem for her.
“My environment has changed me. The entire crowd around me is
the same—people who run after a career, material goods, wealth,
position, beauty, stature and power. In fact, the entire society is like
that. Everybody is a slave of materialism and mediocrity. All are
running after them. I also joined others in that rat race; as such, I also
became like them.”
Another question arose:
“How come Waqar did not become like that? When he was rich, even
then, his wealth was his slave and could never become his master.
And when he became poor, his character still remained impeccable.”
Lastly, she remembered one more thing. When she had insulted and
thrown out Waqar from his office, even then, he was concerned that
because of him, she had been embarrassed.
“Why was Waqar the way he was? How could he be so patient,
167 www.inzaar.org
persistent and unmoved by adversity? Why did she not turn out to
be so? Why are others not like Waqar.”
More questions showered her mind. She thought and remembered
Sir Azmat had asked him not to meet Waqar.
“No. I can’t do that. I will have to see Waqar; otherwise, my
conscience will not let me live.”
She spoke to herself and then raised her hands in praying to God:
“O God, please forgive me and help me. I was extremely ruthless. I
have to redress it.”
============
Waqar’s doorbell rang the next day. When the Nurse on duty opened
the door, Isra stood there.
“Is Sir Waqar home?” She asked.
“No. He is not home.”
“OK. I have to meet his mother.”
“Please come in.”
The nurse brought her in. Isra noticed it was a small, two-roomed
house. She remembered even Waqar’s office was larger than that.
Following the nurse, she walked towards his mother’s room. The
Nurse informed Waqar’s mom:
“Somebody is here to see you.”
168 www.inzaar.org
“Who is going to visit me? Nobody.”
Saying that, she straightened herself on the bed. Seeing Isra, she
questioned:
“I didn’t recognise you, daughter.”
She looked at her intently and tried to recognise her.
“I am Isra. You have not met me earlier. I work with Sir Waqar in his
office.”
Isra murmured. Against her usual stern nature, she had softness on
her face and a loving smile on her lips.
“But Waqar does not go to the office now. He has left his job.”
Madam Shamim said wistfully.
“Please don’t worry about it. Everything will be OK.”
Isra consoled her and then inquired.
“Where is Sir Waqar?”
“He has gone to the mosque for prayers. He will be back soon. How
are you?”
“I am fine. How are you feeling now?”
“Just waiting for my death. However, let’s leave it at that. I am sorry
there is no one to serve you anything at the moment. I am not in a
169 www.inzaar.org
condition to even make tea for you. Waqar will return soon and will
serve it.”
“You don’t have to do anything. And please don’t worry. All your
problems will be over soon. I am here now, Mom. You may take me
as your daughter.”
Isra took her hands in hers and kissed them.
Madam Shamim was surprised as to who she was and why she was
talking to her so lovingly.
“Daughter, Waqar has never mentioned you.”
What could Isra say in reply? She thought”
“So much the better that he did not mention me.”
While she was lost in that thought, Madam Shamim looked at her
intently and spoke again.”
“You resemble Sonia so much. It looks like she has returned from her
grave. But you have a lot of love in you. You are well lit from inside.
Sonia was not like that.”
“I am not lit. I am myself looking for light.”
Isra’s sentence reflected her inner anguish. Madam Shamim could
not understand what she had mentioned. Finally, after a moment’s
silence, Isra asked:
“Please tell me, where are your reports? My father suffered from the
same disease as you. I would like to know your current situation.”
170 www.inzaar.org
“ They would be with Waqar.”
As soon as she uttered those words, the doorbell rang. She spoke to
the nurse.”
“Waqar has returned.”
In a while, Waqar entered the room. Isra’s back was towards him. As
such, he thought some acquaintance of his mom had come to visit
her. He started to go out when his mom called:
“Waqar; she is Isra. She has come from your office.”
Waqar froze in place. It looked like the floor had gripped his feet.
Isra’s visit was totally unexpected for him.
“Assalam Alaikum, Sir Waqar.”
He heard Isra’s voice from behind. He turned slowly and, returning
the greeting, added:
“Walaikum uss Salam. Thanks for visiting my mother. I will be back
with tea shortly.”
He quietly left the room.
His mother said woefully:
“Who had thought that Waqar had to make tea one day. We had an
army of servants. Chef, Chauffeur, Gardener, God knows who else.
Then misfortune targeted our happy abode. My young daughter-inlaw, Sonia, died. Waqar’s life ended with that. He loved her a lot.
171 www.inzaar.org
Grieving for her, he gave up everything. With time, we reached this
abysmal condition slowly. On top of that, my sickness, my son is so
restless and worried because of me.”
“Mom, children don’t get worried due to parents. You take it as if God
has sent you a daughter. Now your ailment will be cured soon.”
“Oh, no. There is nothing left to be cured. I am just waiting for death.”
“Please don’t talk like that, OK? Please tell me about Madam Sonia’s
sickness. And what is Sir Waqar doing since the last ten years?”
Isra asked her those questions to take her mind away from her
condition. Madam Shamim started narrating details about Sonia and
Waqar. Isra listened to each word with great interest.
After a while, Waqar returned with tea in a tray.
Placing the cups, when he started to return quietly, his mom asked:
“Where are you going, son?”
“I am going to my room.”
After that, he quietly left the room.
Isra had her tea with Madam Shamim. She spoke to her:
“Let me ask Sir Waqar about your lab reports.”
“Yes, daughter. His room is just next.”
Isra got up and left.
172 www.inzaar.org
============
Waqar sat in his room, reading a book. Isra knocked on the door,
entered and sat opposite him.
Waqar said without looking at her.
“Azmat should have never done that. I had strictly asked him not to
do so.”
“Sir Azmat has done the biggest favour of my life by telling me
everything. However, I have not come to apologise. Even I have not
been able to forgive myself yet. How would I gather the courage to
ask you for the same? I beg you for only one thing. You may curse me
as much as you want; you may vent your anger to your heart’s
content. Call me ungrateful, arrogant, callous, insensitive, and
whatever else you want. But I have only come with a request to give
me the medical reports of Mom. I underwent all those stages when
my father was sick. I can handle her ailment in a much better way.”
“Please, Madam….”
“Please call me Isra. I am younger than you in age and stature.
Please…. ”
Isra begged in a voice laced with pleading.
“Isra, hatred, grudge and malice are not a part of my personality. How
can what is not in me come out? ”
“I have a fairly good idea. Had it been your personality, it….”
173 www.inzaar.org
Isra thoughtfully left her sentence incomplete. Then, seeing her
quiet, Waqar continued:
“Isra, I know you have a lot of responsibilities. You do not need to
take this additional burden unnecessarily. And please, you don’t have
to return any favour whatsoever. I have never done any favour to you
that you may feel obliged to return. Whatever I did, I did for my Lord,
My God Almighty.
While uttering those words, Waqar had the words of Surah Al-Lail,
that defined the personality of the Holy Prophet PBUH, and now they
had also become a part of his personality:
“19. While no one has conferred any favour on him for which he would
give a return. 20. But only to seek the countenance of his Lord, the Most
High.”
(Surah Al-Lail, Chapter 92, The Night, Verses 19 & 20)
Waqar paused, and then said:
“And my Lord gives to people; he doesn’t take anything from them.”
“Sir Waqar, I cannot pay for your favours, ever. Right now, I only
want to placate my Lord, the God who definitely is very angry with
me.”
As Waqar remained quiet, she replied with a smile:
“In any case, I hope all of the rights of God Almighty are not reserved
in your name alone. Others are his slaves as well, even if they are
great sinners. God Almighty loves sinners and forgives them too, and
the way to my salvation starts with mom’s treatment.”
174 www.inzaar.org
When Waqar remained quiet, she sat right in front of him, and,
looking in his eyes, addressed him:
“God is highly magnanimous. It is very easy to seek his forgiveness. I
will seek your forgiveness later.”
“Please don’t talk about forgiveness repeatedly. I have not felt bad
about anything. You have not done me any wrong. On the contrary,
you have been harmed due to me. I had apologised to you for that.”
“OK. If that be so, I have not accepted your apology yet. I will only
forgive you when you hand over the responsibility of mom’s
treatment to me. Now, what do you have to say to that?”
“Azmat made a huge mistake. He should not have sent you here.”
“Sir Azmat has not sent me here; God Almighty has. If you resist any
more, God Almighty will get angry with you too.”
Isra had closed all avenues of escape for Waqar. He knew whatever
Isra was saying was right. He remembered that saying of the Holy
Prophet PBUH: “If a blessing of God comes to you without your wish
for it, it is from God.”
Isra had not come to him; God’s help had. However, to be obliged by
Isra was not acceptable to him at all. Had it been his own sickness, he
would have died but would not have accepted a favour from her. But
the matter was concerning his mother. As such, what could he do? He
had to surrender. Perforce, he got up and, taking the reports from the
cupboard, said:
“My personality will be buried under the weight of your favour.”
175 www.inzaar.org
Isra replied smilingly:
“That would be great. Only then you will be able to feel the agony I
have endured in coming to you. From toenails to the hair on my head,
my entire being is buried under your favours. It is hard for me even
to breathe right now. So please share it a bit with me.”
==============
After that day, Waqar did not notice how his mother’s treatment
progressed. If she had to go to a doctor, Isra drove her over. If a test
was required, it was again Isra’s responsibility. He was completely
absolved of the chores related to his mother’s treatment.
On the one hand, he was happy that his mother was being treated,
and on the other, he was quite sad that he was being obliged by a girl
he had favoured once. If the help had come from someone else,
probably he would not have been hurt to that extent, but Isra’s
position was different. She had the temperament to dominate others.
First, she used to do it in the office, and now she was doing it at his
home. Of course, Waqar would have tolerated that also, but the
problem was that it was precisely the same style as Sonia. But Sonia
was her love; that is why he had bowed and accommodated her, and
Isra was a stranger.
He thought that whatever Isra was doing was not because she felt
she had to do a good deed but because she had to reduce the burden
on her conscience. That way, her conscience would be relieved of the
sense of guilt it felt, but Waqar’s personality would have been buried
under her favour. Whatever he had done was not because he wanted
anything in return. What Isra was doing was a personal favour.
However, he did not have a choice.
176 www.inzaar.org
One day Isra brought his mother back from the hospital and came to
him.
“Sir Waqar, it is time for the transplant. Mom will have to be taken
abroad. I took my father to a neighbouring country too. This time
also, I have contacted the same doctor and finalized all details. The
required test reports have been sent. You will have to accompany us
too.”
Isra announced the decision right after her arrival.
“It is obvious I will have to go with her. You don’t bother. You have
already done enough.”
Waqar had gratitude in his tone but a subdued element of protest as
well.
“It’s not your problem. You just give me mom’s and your passports.”
“How much is it going to cost? How are the funds to be arranged?”
“That too, as I said, is not your problem.”
Isra said plainly. Unintentionally she spoke like a boss. After years in
that position, it had become her second nature.
Waqar felt it was better to hand himself over to the circumstances.
============
“Sir, I want two weeks off.”
“Why? Is everything OK?”
177 www.inzaar.org
Azhar inquired, quite surprised. Isra never took a day off from work.
Consequently, she always had her holidays banked.
“There are a few personal issues, Sir.”
“OK. Take two weeks off. However, did you think about that matter?”
It was clear what Azhar was asking about. He was referring to the
marriage proposal he had conveyed to Isra.
“Sir, give me some time. I was quite tied up with a few personal
affairs. When I return from the holidays, I will be able to say
something about it.”
“OK. I know you are always busy. It’s good you will get time to think
about it during the holidays. However, I want you to remember my
offer. And for that ….”
He took out a gorgeous and expensive ring from a jewellery box and
gave it to her.
“Here is a present for you. It will remind you about making a crucial
decision about your future, and you will have to make it soon.”
Isra thought for a moment and then took the ring and the jewellery
box from him.
“OK, Sir, I will let you know on my return.”
Isra got up and went back to her office. The ring was lying on her
desk, and she was lost in her thoughts. After the death of her parents
and her sisters’ marriages, she had started feeling lonely. She didn’t
have any objection to Azhar’s proposal. The way her mental makeup
178 www.inzaar.org
was, he was a similar, career-oriented person. Had Waqar’s mother’s
treatment not arisen, she would have responded positively to him by
now.
She was also a bit satisfied as far as Waqar was concerned. Whatever
the outcome of his mother’s treatment, her conscience would be at
rest. After that, she could decide about herself freely.
============
The aeroplane was cruising fast towards its destination. Waqar, his
mother and Isra were sitting on adjacent seats.
Isra was sitting next to Waqar. During the journey, an idea jumped at
her from God knows where. She asked Waqar.”
“I am sorry. It’s a very personal question. However, may I know why
have you not remarried after Madam Sonia?”
Waqar kept quiet for a moment, and then answered slowly:
“Because nobody can replace Sonia, ever.”
Isra asked another question:
“You did not work for a long time either. Why?”
“There was no need to. I had enough money to live by. Moreover, a
job did not suit my temperament. Had the problem of mom’s sickness
not arisen, perhaps I would not have worked at all.”
“Sitting idly rusts your talent and capabilities. You could have at least
started a business.”
179 www.inzaar.org
Isra’s interrogation seemed to be never-ending.
“I didn’t have enough capital to start a business. However, I was not
sitting idle during that period. I had undertaken a phenomenal
journey of knowledge and intellectual discovery. As a consequence, I
have discovered the truth that no one wants to accept these days.”
“And what is that truth?”
Isra asked excitedly. Rather than answering her, Waqar asked a
counter-question:
“What would happen if this plane crashed just now?”
“All of us will die.”
“And after that?”
“After that….? What will happen after that? I have never thought
about it. Perhaps Hereafter.”
“Not perhaps. It will surely be the world of Hereafter. Every human
being will be brought back to life. Everyone will be confronted with
what he had done in the world. Actions in accordance with the
teachings of the glorious Quran will be accepted and appreciated in
the court of God Almighty. All other actions will either be declared
useless or will be the cause of catastrophe and annihilation.”
Isra replied laughingly:
“It is not something for which a person should leave the world for
years, like you. It is known to everybody. I know it too. What is so
180 www.inzaar.org
special about it??
“What is special about it is that I have prepared myself to face that
truth. By virtue of the glorious Quran, I know the questions God
Almighty will ask me on Doomsday. In the last ten years, I have
moulded my personality in such a manner so as to be able to answer
every question in the best possible way. Whereas, the case of the rest
of the people is that….”
Waqar stopped saying something.
“What’s the matter with the rest??
Isra was very much interested in the discussion.
“The matter with the rest of the people is that majority of them have
not even made the presentation in the court of God and the real life
of Hereafter a matter to be concerned about. They are the worldly
people who live a life of negligence.”
He pointed towards people sitting in the plane ahead and behind
them and continued:
“Most of them fall in that category. World, world, and only world is
their concern, not God, and not Hereafter. They may believe in God
and the hereafter, but they are not the real priorities of their lives,
although there is no greater truth than God and no greater subject
than the Hereafter. And, remember, unless God and the Hereafter as
a final destination do not become the top priorities of one’s life, he
cannot emerge from the life of neglect, and neither is there any
chance of his salvation.
Isra did not say a word. The reason was apparent. She was also one
181 www.inzaar.org
of those people.
“Along with that majority, there are a lot of others who are men of
religion. They are called religious, but they have not made those
questions their priority that God Almighty has presented in the
glorious Quran as the real proposition. Against that, their energies,
hard work, capital and capabilities are wasted on insignificant
matters that are not even a problem for God. Neither will they be
asked about them in the Hereafter nor rewarded for doing them. In
fact, people adopt many things in the name of religion that will
become the cause of punishment for them.
“What is the reason for this mistake?”
It was something new for Isra. As such, she wanted to understand it.
“The reason is that the glorious Quran is no more the focus of our
religious thinking. The Quran clearly states the actions that will take
us to Paradise and also those that will drag us into Hellfire. However,
the people are not ready to give them the importance they deserve.
Our religious ideologues are neither ready to make those teachings
of the Quran a part of their personalities nor are they ready to make
any efforts to invite others to do so.
“What does it mean that we should make those things a part of our
personalities and call others towards them?”
‘It means that we should eliminate each of those elements from our
characters that are against the requirements laid down in the Quran
and make all of those prescribed in the Holy Quran part of our
personalities. For example, our faith warrants patience, pledge, trust,
fortitude, speaking the truth, kindness and helping human beings. It
teaches us to evolve our lives around the remembrance of God and
182 www.inzaar.org
thanking him. All of them look easy to adopt but are very difficult to
act upon.”
“And you have done all that?”
“I have tried to. As for your second question, what is meant by using
Quran to call others? It means that when we invite others towards
our religion, we should not present anything else as relevant other
than what is there in the Quran. However, you will notice that,
surprisingly, none of our religious groups invites people to the
Quran's calling. Most people present other things as important. As a
consequence, chaos and turmoil are on the rise in our society.”
Isra could comprehend some of what Waqar was saying, and some
she could not. She had never come across religious ideology and
religious groups.
============
“Hey guys, I have tremendous breaking news for you.”
Sidra spoke to her buddies excitedly while they were having lunch.
“Oh, is everything OK? Are you getting married?”
Anum chuckled.
“Stop blabbering. It is about Madam Isra.”
Sidra said exasperatedly.
“So, is she getting married?”
183 www.inzaar.org
It was Rabia this time.
“Girls, will you two allow the poor girl to speak?”
Jamal quipped in support of Sidra.
“Madam has accompanied Waqar and his mom for her treatment
abroad.”
“Oh. But how is that possible? Madam had kicked him out of his job.”
Rabia was shocked.
“Guys, I don’t know the real story. Madam asked me to arrange the
airline tickets, and I also arranged the visa processing etc. That’s how
I found out about it. Madam had asked me not to mention it to
anybody. I did not do so while she was around. But after her
departure, I could not keep it a secret anymore, and I have shared
this fantastic news with you all. For God’s sake, don’t mention it to
anybody, or else Madam will skin me alive.”
“I just can’t believe it. How can Madam be so kind to anybody?”
Anum was still finding it hard to digest the news.
After that, the three of them discussed the topic throughout their
lunch. However, Jamal did not actively participate in it. Instead, he
just sat there, nodding his head and listening to what they talked
about. Even after lunch, he got up quietly and left for his room.
============
They remained silent for some time. Waqar had sensed that
184 www.inzaar.org
academic or philosophical topics were not a problem for Isra, and
what he was talking about was something she could understand.
Waqar spoke less, and talking just for the sake of it was not his habit.
As such, to make the discussion useful, he turned their dialogue’s
direction towards Isra’s person, who sat there quietly.
“Isra, I had asked you a while ago to imagine what would happen if
this plane crashed, and you had replied that all of us would die. Let
us proceed further. Imagine that both of us die together. We are
being presented in the court of God Almighty. The first thing he
would say is that “I had talked to you through the Quran and had
given you my message. Did you read and understand it? What would
be your reply?”
“My answer will be negative. I had just read Quran in Arabic in the
student life. After that, I discontinued reading that too.”
Isra replied somewhat shamefully.
“That means you did not know what God Almighty wanted from you.
And when you don’t even know that, how would you figure out which
of your actions are in accordance with his directives and which
would incur his anger. Which act will lead you to Paradise, and which
one will push you to Hell.”
Isra replied promptly:
“But that we find out from other people what to do and what not to.”
“How are you going to decide who is adding something to the faith
and who is talking about what is written in the glorious Quran? For
that, you have to read the Quran and understand it. Otherwise, there
will always be a chance you will adopt a belief or action against God’s
185 www.inzaar.org
instructions. Therefore, to know what God wants, the only
fundamental source is the glorious Quran.”
Isra did not have an answer to his logic.
“However, let’s leave it at that. Tell me, the religion you know, as told
by your mom and dad, how much of it did you act upon? That would
be the next question; How much of what you knew did you put in
practice? Now tell me, what is your answer to that?”
Isra was a little upset now:
“I was first busy in education and then in responsibilities at home
and the office and never got the time to even think about it.”
“That is exactly what happened to Sonia.”
Waqar sighed.
“And then suddenly she faced death. As much as I knew Sonia, her
life was entirely a life of negligence, totally against the requirements
of the Quran or entirely heedless of them. What do you think about
yourself?”
Isra remained quiet. But Waqar wanted to shake her up.”
“Silence is not a solution to the problem of death, and neither is
negligence. If you stand quietly there as you are here, the decision
will be against you. You should know, as a consequence, there will be
the never-ending Hell, and you will be deprived of the Paradise, full
of God’s blessings and bounties forever.”
Isra was still quiet.
186 www.inzaar.org
“You will probably be upset about what I have said. You may also be
thinking that this foolish person is warning you of death in the prime
of your life. But you saw my wife, Sonia, yourself. God Almighty does
not award death to young like Sonia because he wants to hurt people
like me. These deaths occur so that others like us break through our
silence and negligence and make a final and definite decision about
our lives. However, it is so sad that we just grieve the dead and
condole the bereaved when someone dies, but nobody thinks about
the message sent to us through the deceased.
============
Jamal sat quietly in his office. He was greatly disturbed. He had
worked for that multinational for many years and considered himself
lucky to have that job. The salary was above average, and it was a
career-oriented position. Moreover, the fringe benefits such as
medical, annual bonus and hefty increments made it excellent
employment. The work and environment did not pose any problem
either. Yes, Isra was stern, but she did not admonish unreasonably if
the work was done right and in time. She just had zero tolerance for
carelessness, and Jamal was never careless.
However, in the case of Waqar, he had made a big blunder. Because
of that oversight, Waqar had lost his job. At that time, he had begged
Waqar and saved himself. He was satisfied that there wouldn’t be a
problem later on. However, as soon as he found that Waqar was with
Isra, his peace of mind was shattered.
If Waqar told Isra about Jamal’s blunder that day, Isra would not let
him go unpunished, Especially after Isra had become so kind
towards Waqar that she had taken his mother for treatment abroad.
She would definitely try to bring him back to the job. In that case,
187 www.inzaar.org
Jamal could easily lose his position. To put the blame on Jamal and
bring back Waqar was easy for Isra, and Sir Azhar always accepted
her decision. Truth be told, he was at fault too.
Jamal was surrounded by anxiety and worries. He could not figure
out what to do. He did not have any recourse other than hanging at
the gallows of waiting.
============

Isra and Waqar were quiet again. The plane was cruising fast toward
its destination. Waqar broke the silence, and Looking outside
through the window, he recounted:
“Life is also like an aeroplane that is perpetually on a journey, and
the destination of that journey is nothing but death. Maybe not now,
but in the next hundred years, every person on this plane and on this
planet would have completed his natural span of life and departed.
After that, one of the two ends awaits us, either eternal Hell or
eternal Paradise. It is that truth according to which I have tried to
mould my life, precisely as per the requirements that God Almighty
has narrated in the glorious Quran. I have tried to become the person
required by the Quran, whose models were the holy prophets, peace
be upon them. I am fully satisfied that even if I die right now, I will
still be able to answer all the questions of my Lord and Master as far
as my life is concerned. “
At that, Isra looked at him intently and thought:
“He is so confident.”
“ I have learnt the glorious Quran well and have made all efforts to
mould my life according to its requirements. After that, if I make a
188 www.inzaar.org
mistake, I seek forgiveness, and God has also assured in the Quran
that he is a great forgiver. You think I was rich earlier and have
become poor now. No. I was poor before and have become rich now.
I don’t have any concerns or fear. Is that the case with you too?”
Isra replied in a half-dead tone:
“But I have never tried to hurt anybody.”
Waqar replied, smiling:
“You remember what you did to me on that oversight of the project?
If I had replied to you that day that I had not tried to do a bad turn to
anybody, would you have accepted my reason?”
Isra nodded in negative.
“My situation was that I had a reasonable excuse for that omission.
You had no control over me, nor were you giving me anything. What
I got was only some salary which the Company paid me. As against
that, you have no excuse to make in the court of Almighty God. He
gives you not only salary but also life, health, good looks, your body
and organs, intelligence and capabilities and every other blessing in
the universe. The day he asks you about the project of servitude
assigned to you, the mission of becoming a righteous person given to
you and about your completion report, what would you reply? He
will ask that you had the time to read all the books in the world for
your mortal career of this temporary world, but for the immortal
career of the Hereafter, you could not get the time to read his book,
how would you answer him?
Either affirm that there is no God and no Hereafter, and if that is the
case, the Quran has an answer to that as well. It is full of examples
189 www.inzaar.org
and reasons that prove why it is logical to accept the existence of God,
Prophets and the Hereafter. But since you already believe that, as
such, you will not say it. And if that be so, please tell me how much
have you prepared for the day you will be presented in the court of
the Lord of all the Worlds, something that can start the very next
moment if this plane explodes in the air right now.”
Isra remained quiet. Waqar stopped talking as well. Then, after a
while, Isra posed a question:
“Do you have the glorious Quran with translation?”
Waqar got up from his seat, took his bag from the overhead bin,
pulled out a Quran from it and gave it to Isra:
“I will tell you the summary of this book. More than six thousand
verses in it explain the same.
“O people, worship God who created you. One day you will return
and be presented to him. There, all your actions will be accounted
for. Whoever worships God, serves human beings, remains steadfast
on the path of truth and exhorts others to remain steadfast on it too,
will be saved. The rest will be thrown in the horrible, raging fire of
Hell to weep and scream forever.”
Isra listened to him, opened the Quran, and started looking into it.
============

Their stay was a little short of two weeks. They had admitted
Waqar’s mother to the hospital on arrival. It was an expensive
private hospital. Isra had booked a private room for her. She used to
stay with her in the day, and Waqar stayed at night. Waqar and Isra
were together; despite that, they seldom met. They only came across
190 www.inzaar.org
each other when going or coming back from the hospital, and, during
that period, too, there was hardly any conversation. Even if they did
talk, it was mostly about mom’s health and the operation.
Mom underwent quite a few tests in the beginning. After three days,
the operation was carried out. They were present outside the
Operation Theater. It was a complex and challenging operation. The
organ donor was also arranged locally. Isra had undergone those
stages for her father. As such, she had handled everything from the
beginning to the end. Because of her, Waqar was relieved of those
processes and the allied problems. He realized that he was saved
from a lot of hassles due to Isra. He had not been able to thank her
for that so far. As such, he found it appropriate to use that occasion
and thank her:
“I want to thank you. Because of you, not only my mom’s operation
was possible, but I was also saved from all of its difficulties.”
Isra smiled. It looked like the heaviness on her heart was starting to
vanish. She spoke, representing her inner sentiments:
“It means you have forgiven me.”
“I told you earlier as well that I had no complaint in the first place.
Therefore, the question of forgiving does not arise.”
“But I had wronged my benefactor, and that too a benefactor whose
favours my entire person is buried under.”
“Isra, In God’s world, the sun removes darkness, the moon
illuminates nights, the air breathes life into everybody, flowers emit
fragrance, stars twinkle, all of them do it on God’s order, and not for
anybody in particular, but for all. I did not do anything for Isra. I did
191 www.inzaar.org
it for God. Had it not been Isra, it would have been some Sara,
Fakhira, whoever, I would have done the same. Had it been Ahmed,
or Arif, I would have still done it too.”
Isra looked at him. Whatever he was saying was the truth, not mere
words. He was like that.
Waqar continued:
“However, that entire episode was based on God’s wisdom. Had the
events not unfolded the way they did, you would not have helped me
to this extent, and I would not have benefitted from the comfort and
ease that I have received. This event has led to open another chapter
of God’s power and greatness for me.”
Isra was somewhat surprised. It was a fact that if circumstances had
not been what they were, she would not have helped Waqar to that
extent.
“How strange and unique is God’s wisdom.”
She thought but did not say it. Seeing her quiet, Waqar resumed:
“If you are so sensitive about this matter, I would like to say one more
thing.”
Isra looked at him questioningly.
“I only paid for your education and your father’s treatment. But there
is another entity who created you and gave you health and safety.
Whatever you are today is due to his favours. So, why are you not
conscious about his favours then?”
192 www.inzaar.org
Isra did not reply. She had nothing to say.
“Please don’t think I am saying it to you without reason. Like Sonia,
you are career-oriented. I don’t want another Sonia to tread the same
path, and one day, when death suddenly knocks on the door, at that
moment, she realizes she is leaving the world totally empty-handed.
What she had earned has to be left behind, and there is nothing to
take to where she has to go.”
“I have started reading the Quran.”
“Isra opened her purse and took out the Quran.”
“There is nothing else to do here. So, I just keep myself busy reading
it.”
“Did you understand it a bit?”
“Yes. God Almighty is everything, and the life of Hereafter is real life.
This point has been repeated on every page of the Quran in one way
or the other. I am afraid I may not become like you after some time.”
Hearing that, Waqar laughed.
“Don’t become like me. I am not living a normal life due to Sonia’s
death. If I have become normal to some extent, it is because of the
Quran. You have not undergone a tragedy in life. Therefore, you will
live a normal life. You just have to mould yourself according to the
moral and ethical standards of the Quran. Justice, benefaction,
spending in the way of God, distance yourself from cruelty, excesses,
the forbidden and immodesty; this is the summary of the teachings
of the Quran. With them, a good and normal life can be lived easily.”
193 www.inzaar.org
They did not talk on that subject throughout the rest of the journey.
However, Isra was occupied with reading the Quran all the time.
============

The liver transplant operation of Waqar’s mother was successful.
After ten days of post-operative care, she was allowed to leave. When
they returned, she recovered swiftly. Isra visited her two or three
times a week in the evening and stayed with her for prolonged
periods. Even otherwise, there wasn’t much to do at her home and
nobody to spend time with. In Waqar’s mom, she had found a mother
again who she talked to all the time. In addition to the nurse, she had
hired a maid responsible for cooking and other chores.
However, another tussle had started in her life. During the treatment,
she was completely cut off from her work environment. She stayed
in the hospital and read Quran all the time. She had the same copy of
the Quran given by Waqar that was in his personal study. It had
various points of the Quran highlighted. So, she inevitably
concentrated more on those areas when she read it.
The highlighted areas were about the real message of the Quran, i.e.,
faith and righteous deeds. It was a live introduction to God his
attributes. How is he always in touch with us? What would happen
on Doomsday and in the Plain of Accountability? How will Paradise,
Hell, punishments and rewards take place? What kind of human
being does Quran warrant? What does God want, and not want, from
human beings? And what does he like and dislike? What does Satan
entice human beings to? What was the character of the enemies of
the Last Prophet and Messenger of God PBUH? What is the way of the
righteous? It was the real message of the holy Quran that had now
become quite clear to her.
194 www.inzaar.org
Had Isra read all that under normal circumstances, perhaps it would
not have impacted her to that extent. But the environment she was
in had the story of fickleness and volatility of the world written all
around. Death grabbed somebody every day. In such an
environment, the call of the Quran about the world being a place for
test and the Hereafter the final abode was proving to be very
effective. The saying that life was a loan given by death and it would
take it back when the time comes, that everybody had to leave the
world and go, the truth that one had to leave everything behind
stayed right in front of eyes all the time. The scene depicting sick all
around kept the realisation afresh in the humans that they were
helpless and nothing was in their control.
The impact of reading the glorious Quran in such an environment
was entirely different. When she talked to mom, she only talked
about Waqar, his past, present, how he was and what he had become,
his personality earlier and what had it become now, how his life had
been moulded into one of patience and good deeds. His nights were
spent praying and days serving others. Even after losing everything
in the world, what a satisfying life he led. Her narration had an
extraordinary impact on Isra.
In the hospital, call of the Quran towards the Hereafter remained
before her as a living truth. The real value of God's blessings,
bounties, and kindness highlighted by the Quran, whose minimal
expression was the life and health that every person enjoyed, was
discovered only after coming to the hospital. The Quran called the
world temporary and invited towards eternal life of the Hereafter;
the absolute truth of that call was felt a lot more in the hospital’s
environment.
Also, a human being, as desired by the Quran, was present in the form
of Waqar. He was a living example of the qualities the Quran called
195 www.inzaar.org
for. Isra saw that doing good to people was his habit. With his words,
in his dealings, with his money, he used to help people if he got a
chance. He made the lives of others easy and guided people.
Everybody who visited the hospital was faced with one difficulty or
the other. Wherever and whenever he got a chance, he extended a
helping hand.
Isra was a woman, but she always felt safe with Waqar. In her society,
a woman required two types of safety in the company of a man. One
was that she felt safe from other men when with him, and secondly,
she felt safe from him. Isra felt safe from both angles when she was
with him. Waqar never tried to take liberty with her when he found
her alone. He never tried to get close by mentioning his favours, to
the extent that he never even looked at her intently. And this attitude
was not only with Isra but with every woman he came across.
Another great quality of his character was his patience and
tolerance. He was utterly oblivious to the psychology of reaction.
Even though they encountered problems and difficulties while
travelling, as are common with every journey, she always found
Waqar patient and tolerant. He never quarrelled or used foul
language. Even though she had observed those qualities even in her
office, she saw it there as well that he was not foolish. On the
contrary, he was wise and prudent. His good manners and patience
were not a sign of weakness but the strength of his character. Such
an extraordinary person quickly makes his place in others’ hearts,
and Waqar had entered her heart and had made a place for himself
there inconspicuously.
============
Isra joined the office on return. In addition to the other official
responsibilities, she now had to face Azhar’s questioning eyes as
196 www.inzaar.org
well, as he was waiting for her reply. However, now that she had
returned to her old world, her inner turmoil had reached its peak.
She had realised she was living in an imaginary world. Everything,
success, career, high rank and position, wealth and status, looked
artificial. There was a race to get ahead that had taken away
everybody’s peace. There was a rat race to increase one’s status, and
it had robbed everybody’s peace of mind and heart.
When she did not reply, Azhar discreetly asked about her answer a
couple of times. Had she not spent two weeks with the Quran, she
was fully prepared to marry him and would have said yes on return.
But the two weeks of mental exercise she had undergone with the
Quran had turned her personality upside down, a personality she
had taken years to nurture and groom.
And yet, it was not easy for her to leave her fully established world.
Even though she knew that to become a person as sought by Quran,
she did not have to leave the world, but she definitely had to fight
with it. She had to fight with Satan. Azhar was a good choice as long
as she was living for this world, but he was an entirely inappropriate
choice for the other world, the Hereafter. She would have thought
about Waqar, but he had told her in no uncertain terms that he would
never forget Sonia and remarry. After that, he had not remained an
option at all. She was not even a male like Waqar who could decide
to live single, and society would let her live peacefully.
She really could not decide what to do. She had become used to
praying during the treatment of Waqar’s mother, and she had
continued praying on return. As such, she started beseeching God
after every prayer to help and guide her.
============
Jamal’s worries reached new heights when Isra came back. He had
197 www.inzaar.org
not discussed his dilemma with any colleague lest someone told Isra.
But the fear of Isra finding out everything directly from Waqar was
getting on his nerves now.
Isra had a meeting with her staff on return. She talked to him quite a
few times, but he did not notice any change in her attitude. So, he
concluded that Waqar had kept his word and had not disclosed
anything to her.
When a week passed safely, Jamal heaved a sigh of relief. Isra was
directly handling Waqar’s project, and he was supervising it. He tried
to probe her mind about the chances of Waqar’s return to work a
couple of times, but Isra denied any such possibility.
After that, Jamal was fully satisfied that neither would Waqar return
to work nor had he said anything to Isra. However, another feeling
had now started developing in him; to an extent, he was also
responsible for Waqar’s termination. Had he not forgotten about the
English presentation in Waqar’s drawer, Isra would have got it in
time. She would have been still upset with Waqar, but she would not
have fired him from the job. His conscience had started bothering
him about that now. He had found Waqar to be a noble person, and
the role he had played in losing his job had begun to haunt him.
He also got strange news through Sidra, who told all the colleagues
that Isra had started to pray regularly. Even though she prepared for
the prayer when she was alone and that too carefully, but since Sidra
was her secretary and went to her room frequently, it had not
remained hidden from her for long.
He had also felt that Isra’s stern nature had also mellowed to an
extent. His colleagues had also felt the change in her. In the
background of those changes, Jamal thought he should go and tell
198 www.inzaar.org
Isra the truth. There was a chance that his job would be endangered,
but it would be even worse if Isra found out about it somehow. Even
if she never came to know of it, his conscience would have continued
bothering him. As such, he decided to speak to Isra about it.
============
“May I come in, Ma’am?”
Jamal knocked on the door, opening it slightly.
“Yes. Come in, Jamal. What is it?”
Isra said politely, much against her norm, even though Jamal had
noticed that this politeness was becoming a permanent feature of her
attitude.
“Take a seat, Jamal. Is everything OK?”
“All is well, Ma’am.”
Jamal took a seat. It was again a different experience for him. Unless
Isra asked her staff to join her for a meeting, she never asked them
to sit down. The staff members said what they had to, standing there.
There was no question of courtesy greetings at all.
After a while, Jamal opened up:
“Ma’am, I wanted to tell you something. Actually, ….”
Jamal stopped there, still gathering courage.
“Yes, Jamal. What is it?”
199 www.inzaar.org
Isra’s tone was still polite.
“Ma’am, that project being handled by Sir Waqar that I was looking
after, truth be told, he did the entire work on that project. It was a
masterpiece.”
Reaching that point, Jamal stopped again, still trying to gather guts
to speak the truth.
“I know that.”
Isra gave a short reply.
“Ma’am, he had not left any loophole in the project. He had made
the presentation in the German language as well as in English, just
the way you had asked him to.”
He placed the project in English on the desk in front of Isra. Isra cast
a cursory look at it and asked Jamal.
“But he had said it was not possible to complete it in such a short
time.”
“No, Ma’am. He had completed the English presentation before going
home that night. Since you had left, he could not give it to you. Before
going, he placed it in his drawer. He had planned to give it to you in
the morning. He had told me everything before he left for home.”
It was an entirely new disclosure for Isra. Had she come to know of
it that day, there wouldn’t have been any major problem. Isra was
thoroughly familiar with the project. She could have explained the
details with the help of the presentation in English. She had spoken
200 www.inzaar.org
to the delegation to some extent, but the matters wouldn’t have taken
a turn for the worse had the English presentation been with her. Now
that she came to know that the presentation was in the office all that
time, she lost her temper:
“Why didn’t you tell me about it at that time?”
Isra’s traditional terse and stern tone had returned, and her face
reddened with severe anger.
“Ma’am, we were in such high tension that day. The total
concentration was on the delegation and locating Sir Waqar.
Amongst all that stress, I could not remember, and you did not ask.
And in the end, when you mentioned it, I realised that the problem
would have been solved had it been given to you in time. But there
was no use of mentioning it as you had already got Sir Waqar’s
termination letter typed from Sidra with all of us around.”
“And you thought that if you told me at that time, your letter of
termination would have been typed too.”
Isra was still fuming.
“Yes, Ma’am. That is why when Sir Waqar returned and was going to
see you, I begged him not to mention the presentation to you because
then my job would have been endangered too.”
It was another new discovery for Isra that Waqar knew about the
oversight by Jamal, and he had still saved him.
She sighed:
“And that is why Waqar has never told me about it till today.”
201 www.inzaar.org
“Yes, Ma’am. He is a great person. He saved me.”
“Why are you telling me all that now?”
“My conscience is killing me. Had I given you the presentation in
time, you wouldn’t have fired him. So now, if you want to fire me,
please do. I have nothing to fear.”
“How have you suddenly developed this courage?’
“I got the courage seeing Sir Waqar. When he was going to your
office, he did not have the slightest fear on his face. He told me his
Lord, God Almighty, was with him. He did not care for anything else.
I am here today with the same confidence. My God is with me.”
“But he lost his job. How are you going to keep yours?”
Isra questioned sternly.
“God tests everybody according to his capacity. Sir Waqar’s capacity
was immense, and mine is minimal. I hope God Almighty will not test
me at that level.”
Even though Jamal had uttered those words, his face showed his
sorry state. He felt that Isra would take stern action.
Isra was quiet for a while. Then her stern look changed into halfsmile:
“Jamal, you are correct. God tests a person according to his capacity.
Waqar’s capacity is huge, and his stature is very high. As such, he was
tested severely. But I will not put you in a severe test. So, you go and
202 www.inzaar.org
do your work. But don’t ever make a mistake again that would harm
others.”
Jamal’s face glowed with happiness. Thanking her, he got up and
walked out briskly. It was excellent news for him that he was saved.
After his departure, Isra opened the file brought by Jamal. It had the
presentation made by Waqar. Every page reflected his outstanding
capabilities. But more than that, it reflected on Waqar’s impeccable
character. She closed the file and contentedly put her head on the
headrest.
Since Isra had returned from the trip, a storm was raging in her
world. It had subsided today. She had reached a final decision. A
person who, even when his own boat is sinking, tries to save
someone else is not a human being; he is a diamond. She had decided
to make that diamond her own at any cost.
She opened the side drawer and took out the jewellery box given to
her by Azhar. Then she opened the box and looked at the ring.
She recalled that when the project presentation had turned into a
fiasco, Azhar had not made any attempt to save her at that difficult
moment, whereas Waqar had saved Jamal despite his mistake. The
difference was obvious. Azhar would leave her in a lurch in hard
times, whereas Waqar would never leave her alone in times of
distress.
Isra closed the box, put it in a corner, and then looked at Waqar’s file.
On it, Waqar had written her name in large letters:
For Ms Isra Ahmed
203 www.inzaar.org
She picked up the pen, cut her family name ‘Ahmed’, and wrote
‘Waqar’ instead.
Then she smiled and murmured fortuitously:
Waqar, now I will not let you go anywhere. Beware, my name is
Isra.
============
After meeting and updating herself on mom’s health, Isra walked
towards Waqar’s room. She often visited his home to meet mom but
seldom came across him. Waqar had always kept himself at a
distance. However, today she had come over having made a decision.
“May I come in?”
She asked. The door was half-opened. Waqar was reading, as was his
routine.
“Yes, please.”
Waqar looked up, glanced at her casually and pointed towards a
chair.
“Waqar, I will not take a lot of your time. I wanted to talk to you about
something.”
“Please go ahead.”
Waqar replied, closing the book.
“I have now understood the glorious Quran. Perhaps under normal
circumstances, I would not have been influenced by it to that extent,
204 www.inzaar.org
but I read it under extraordinary circumstances. You were always
there, and in you, I found a practical and living example of the Quran.
The presence of a practical example made it much easier for me to
comprehend its teachings. That is why my approach to life,
established over many, many years, has now changed.”
Waqar kept quiet. Getting no response, she questioned hesitatingly:
“May I ask something?”
“Yes, please.”
Waqar replied softly. Isra asked:
“Lady Khadijah RA had proposed to marry our holy prophet PBUH first.
Was it wrong?”
“No. there was nothing wrong with it. The Arab society was based on
nature. Nature-based Societies do not have useless and senseless
restrictions. And then the personality of our holy prophet PBUH was
so matchless that when our mother, Lady Khadijah RA came across
him, she was highly impressed. So, if she came across such an
outstanding person, there was nothing wrong in asking him to marry
her. So, she sent the marriage proposal, and our holy prophet PBUH
accepted it.
Before he could finish his sentence, Isra spoke without further ado:
“I have nobody to send my proposal through. As such, I am proposing
to you directly. I want to marry you.”
Waqar fell silent on hearing that. There was pin-drop silence in the
room. After a while, Waqar’s voice broke that silence:
205 www.inzaar.org
“Isra, in returning the debt, you have started paying the interest too.
Accepting interest is forbidden in our religion. Therefore, I cannot
accept this interest.”
“It is not interest, but an investment. I am a businesswoman. I don’t
get into loss-making deals. What I am doing is well-considered.”
No, Isra, we are inhabitants of two different worlds. There is nothing
common amongst us.”
Waqar was not impressed by what she had said. But Isra was also not
ready to accept defeat easily. So, she presented her case to him.
It wasn’t before. But now, your point of view is shared by the two of
us. Now my world has changed. I have found an introduction to the
Hereafter in your person. Even a thousand lectures would not have
explained God and Hereafter to me. But you and your personality
have introduced me to the two so conclusively that I have also
become desirous of earning the same Paradise you wish to. In that
quest, a person becomes unconcerned about this world. Whatever he
does, it is for God. Neither does he want anything in return, nor does
he remind others of his favours.”
“That is all true. But for that, you don’t have to marry a person fifteen
years older than you. You can find many others much better than
me.”
Waqar’s answer was still negative.
I had already decided to marry someone fifteen years older than me
to get everything in this world. It still is the same decision. The only
change is that now it is to get everything in the Hereafter. Your
206 www.inzaar.org
character bears a testimony that God Almighty has reserved an
honourable place for you in Paradise. I had to get married anyway.
As such, I will now marry you, whether you want it or not.”
With that conclusive statement, Isra got up and walked out.
============

Isra departed but left behind another worry for Waqar. He was
interested in Isra only to the extent that she would become a better
person. After Sonia, he had no desire to remarry. As far as Isra was
concerned, he had never considered her from that angle, even for a
moment. Isra was a girl a thousand would wish to marry if she gave
even the slightest hint. However, Waqar was not one of them.
He knew that Isra’s personality was groomed quite differently. The
circumstances had taken such a turn that Waqar had become her
benefactor. He felt that a combination of the zest to return his favours
and being impressed with his personality had influenced Isra.
However, they were temporary feelings that would subside with
time. Emotions played a significant part in Isra’s decisions. However,
he was a mature, middle-aged person who could not fall prey to
emotions. He decided not to accept Isra’s offer on any condition. He
would not allow an emotional decision to wreck his and Isra’s lives.
Isra visited the next evening again, and after spending some time
with his mother, she entered his room. Waqar was quite surprised to
see that her attire had changed. Against her routine, she wore kneelength shirt and baggy trousers, called Shalwar-Qameez in their
culture. In addition, she wore a large scarf on her head that covered
her head and her bosom. She quipped:
“When I met you first, I was dressed like this, quite virtuous and
gentle.”
207 www.inzaar.org
Waqar gawked at her. The impact of her personality had totally
changed. Waqar, looking down, questioned:
“Have you ever washed dishes?”
“Dishes?” She started thinking.
“Not in a long time. But when I was small, my mom got them washed
by me. After that, the busy schedule of studies never gave me a
chance, nor did mom ask me after that.”
“How did you wash the dishes?
“It does not involve rocket science. First, you have to wet the dish,
then use dishwashing liquid and clean it. If the grease and muck are
excessive, use steel wire or sponge and scrub the dish well, then
wash under the water, and that’s it.”
As Isra gave out those details, she wondered what the use of that
unrelated discussion was.
“Did you wash the dish from inside or outside?” He asked.
“Of course, the dish is to be washed from inside as it gets messy there.
The outside is washed only with soap, and as water is poured over it,
it becomes clean. The real washing is to be done inside.”
“You improved your exterior. That is good in its own right. But a
human personality is also like a dish. It gets dirtied from inside. We
clean the exterior and think it has been cleaned. Whereas the Quran
bases salvation on cleaning of the interior.”
208 www.inzaar.org
Isra got the point now. Waqar had replied to her thinking that
changing her attire was a good deed. She replied:
“You know, a person has to start from somewhere. Please be satisfied
that I have fully understood the message of the Quran. I know that
God Almighty wants a person to clean himself from inside. He gets
the outside cleaned only as a precaution. I want to marry you because
I want to cleanse my soul from inside.”
“Please, you are used to a luxurious lifestyle….”
Waqar tried to discourage her from another angle, but he faced Isra,
a persistent and determined person. She interrupted him in
between:
“That is my problem, and you leave it to me. I want your answer.”
“My answer is that I don’t want to put you through a test, especially
keeping in view that I am still mentally bonded with Sonia.”
“That is also my problem.”
Isra said with total confidence as if she was sure she would take
Sonia out of his life once she entered it.
Waqar felt it was time to reply clearly.
“My answer is still no. I will not marry you.”
“OK. As you like, but what I want will happen.”
After that, Isra left his room. Her face reflected complete confidence
that she would change Waqar’s no into yes.
209 www.inzaar.org
================
The next day, Isra visited again and went to mom’s room.
Looking at her, mom perked up as she had gotten used to her. She
loved her changed attire:
“Oh, you are looking so pretty today. Please always dress like that.
You look so much better.”
The reason for her comment was that Isra did not usually use
makeup. However, today she was dolled up. She was pretty even
otherwise, but makeup and jewellery had made her look like a
freshly bloomed flower.
“Had you said earlier, I would have always come like this.”
“No dear, everybody lives the way one wants to. I never even asked
my daughter-in-law not to do what she wanted to. Anyway, let’s
leave it aside. Tell me, how are you? I always pray for you all the
time.”
“Mom, along with your prayers, I also need your help. I am facing a
problem and want you to help me.”
She said humbly. Mom replied earnestly:
“Please tell me, baby. I will do whatever is required, even if it costs
my life.”
“Mom, I don’t need your life. I have decided to leave my job. I do not
have a home of my own. The company had provided it. I don’t have
210 www.inzaar.org
parents or a brother. My two sisters are married. I cannot go and live
with them. I just don’t know where to go.”
Isra gave her story in a sad and worried tone. It hit mom’s heart right
away.
“Oh my God, my baby, you don’t have to worry at all. My home is your
home as well. You just move in with your luggage. You can’t be
without a home as long as I am there.”
“But Mom, Waqar also lives here. So, it won’t be appropriate. People
will talk. You know our society.”
Isra innocently presented her problem with a new angle.
On hearing that, Mom comforted her:
“my girl, Waqar does not even look at any woman. I am asking him to
get married since God knows when. But you are right. The people will
gossip when a young girl is involved.”
The time had come for Isra to present the proposal for which she had
mentioned her sob story in the first place. She hesitatingly started:
“Mom, If you talk to Waqar, I mean, If we get married, my problem
will be solved, and I will be able to live with you forever.”
Madam Shamim was shocked. She did not expect Isra would say that
in such clear words. Then, quite surprised, she asked:
“But my baby, you and your high position and….”
“Mom, what can be done? It is a necessity. There is no other way
211 www.inzaar.org
either.”
Isra interrupted her innocently.
But Waqar’s mother was a mature, older lady. She understood to a
certain extent that it was something more than necessity. She asked
her directly.
“Do you like Waqar?”
Isra bowed her head.
She asked another question.
“Did you talk to him?”
“He does not agree,” Isra murmured.
Madam Shamim snapped:
“OK. Now I will see how that fool says no to marrying you. Send him
to my room and wait outside for a while. He will come out and tell
you himself that he is ready to marry you.”
============

In a while, Waqar was with his mother. Isra had stayed out. Waqar’s
sixth sense had cautioned him about something being wrong.
He inquired.
“Mom, how are you? Isra told me you wanted to see me right away.”
212 www.inzaar.org
“Yes, son. I am now much closer to death than life. Therefore, I want
to speak to you on a few important subjects.”
“Mom, why are you saying that? Now you are completely recovered
by the grace of God.”
“Yes, son. But there is no joy in life even now. As long as Sonia was
alive, I was deprived of playing with my grandkids. I did not say a
word as I knew how sensitive you were about it. After her death, you
abandoned the world. I suffered through that traumatic period as
well. I asked you to marry again, but you disagreed. Now, I think
when I die, I will lament to God that my son never gave me any
happiness in my life.”
Waqar was perplexed as his mother said that.
“But Mom, I did all I could to serve you.”
“Son, serving is not everything. Isra has also served me as much in
such a short time. In addition, the happiness she gave me in
becoming my daughter, you could never give earlier and will never
give in the future as well. I think if I could marry you to Isra, perhaps
some of the sorrows of my life would be compensated. However, I
know you. For the sake of a dead woman, you never listened to your
mother earlier and will not listen to me now. So, when presented to
my God, I will have to say my son was disobedient.”
Waqar had now fully understood what had transpired.
“So, Isra has talked to you?”
“What has she said that’s wrong? It was a voice of my heart, my
prayer of years. God listened to my prayer and sent a righteous fairy
213 www.inzaar.org
to my home. But you, you continue to be thankless. You are blind
when it comes to women; otherwise, you would have known that
God had rewarded you with Isra for your patience.”
“Mom, even if I keep Sonia aside, I know that Isra is trying to return
my favours.”
“She has already returned your favours. Waqar, remember, in this
day and age, the great are not those who do good to others; the truly
great are those who remember and return favours, as after the time
has passed, nobody remembers who did good to them. If Isra is doing
it, it is a sign of her greatness.”
“That’s exactly what I am saying, Mom. If it is her greatness, should
she be punished for it by being pushed into marriage with a man
fifteen years older than her?”
“Son, had it been so, I would have said no to her. You have not seen
her closely because you don’t look at women at all. But, I have seen it
in her eyes that she likes you. So, it is not only a matter of returning
favours.”
Trying to make him understand, she added further:
“You have exercised a lot of patience; now it is time for gratitude.”
“But Mom, you know I cannot marry anybody after Sonia.”
“Son, go out and have a good look at that girl. She is another Sonia.
God Almighty has brought your dead wife to life and sent her to you
again. She is Sonia in appearance, but her inner self is way better, so
she can live with you in Paradise. God has done a miracle for you. He
doesn’t bless everybody with such miracles.”
214 www.inzaar.org
Waqar sat, head bowed. Seeing him quiet, she urged him again:
“Go out and value the great favour God has done to you. Isra is a
blessing God Almighty has sent you. If you reject her, you will commit
a sin - ingratitude. In addition, you will also have committed another
sin, i.e., hurting your mother’s feelings. If you cannot give me this
happiness in my twilight years, you may as well dump me at an old
age shelter for the homeless. What’s the use of a son who cannot give
any joy to his mother?”
All avenues of escape were blocked for Waqar. Looking down, he
sighed:
“OK, Mom, whatever you say.”
“Not like that. She is sitting outside. Go and tell her that you want to
marry her. It is my order.”
“Mom, please. It is not my temperament.”
“I don’t want to listen to anything. Go and do what I have asked you
to.”
Waqar got up from his seat halfheartedly.
============
When Waqar exited his mom’s room like a gambler who had lost
the game, Isra was sitting outside. When she saw Waqar, she bowed
her head. Waqar saw her closely for the first time and kept looking.
He was following his mother’s order a moment ago, but now he felt
what he had to say to Isra was from his heart.
215 www.inzaar.org
He smiled and coming close to her, he said:
“Isra, I will marry you.”
On hearing that, she looked up and replied smilingly:
“I am a bit rude and headstrong. You will have to put up with that.”
“Who said that?”
“Everybody.”
“They are absolutely wrong.”
“So, I want to hear the truth from you.”
“You are not a bit rude. You are very, very rude and impolite.”
Waqar laughed and moved towards his room after saying that. She
liked the way he laughed. She also laughingly answered:
“Whatever I am, you will have to put up with it now.”
============

The first year of their marriage passed so quickly that they didn’t
even notice it. During that period, Waqar found a totally different
Isra. Her stern nature had mellowed. Like Waqar, Isra’s life priorities
revolved around worship, service, spending in the name of God and
righteousness. Unlike Sonia, she was devoted to looking after Waqar
and his mother.
216 www.inzaar.org
Along with that, Isra had transformed Waqar’s financial condition as
well. She was frugal and did not waste money. Working in executive
positions for decades, she had astutely invested her savings. As such,
she had been able to have Waqar’s mother treated abroad and still
had a large chunk left.
She convinced Waqar to start a business again. She pooled her
savings with whatever was left with him and started a business. The
initial capital was much less than where Waqar had left his business,
but since both understood the business well and also with God’s
blessings, whatever they touched turned to gold. Their business
expanded fast. As their situation became better, they moved to better
accommodation, and the hustle-bustle of servants started in their
home once again.
More than everything else, Isra had erased Sonia’s memories from
Waqar’s mind in every possible way. She was like that, shadowing
everything and everybody around, getting herself acknowledged and
making a place for herself everywhere. Similarly, she had made a
place for herself in Waqar’s home, life and heart.
It was their first wedding anniversary. Isra had insisted they go out
and have dinner somewhere. As such, Waqar had taken her to a
scenic restaurant. After placing the order, Waqar left for the
washroom to wash his hands. When he returned, he saw Isra sitting
quiet and staring into space. He liked the way she looked. She had an
undefinable glow on her face. Waqar kept looking at her for a while,
and then going near her, asked:
“Excuse me, Ms, may I sit here?”
Isra looked at him for a moment and, soberly turning her face away,
replied seriously:
217 www.inzaar.org
“I don’t like strangers trying to be frank with me.”
“But I think we have met earlier as well.”
“It may be so. But that doesn’t mean I should allow you to sit with
me.”
Isra’s tone was still serious.
Waqar, ignoring what she had said, sat and continued:
“I want to ask you something important.”
“So go ahead and ask.”
Isra replied curtly.
“Will you marry me?”
Hearing that, Isra smiled and spoke demurely:
“Sorry. I am already married.”
Both laughed aloud and kept laughing for a long time.
Waqar had changed himself considerably to suit Isra. He had never
given her a chance to feel they had an age difference. He had changed
his sobriety into decent humour, and that change had been
expressed just now.
When he stopped laughing, he asked Isra:
218 www.inzaar.org
“You are glowing today.”
“Yes, I feel the same way. However, I will tell you the reason later on.
I hope I have not bothered you a lot after our marriage.”
“No, Isra. You have filled my life with the colours of joy that I had
been deprived of. I hope you don’t regret marrying me.”
“Waqar, even if I get ten lives, I would still like to spend each one of
them with you.”
Waqar quipped again.
“No ten lives. You will get only one more, and you can spend that with
me.”
Isra laughed and said:
“You are a great human being. Loving, caring, sacrificing and
sensitive. Very few men are like that.”
Isra’s tone was laced with love. Waqar looked at her closely and
remarked:
“Now that I think I didn’t marry after Sonia for so many years, it was
as per God’s plan. He wanted you to enter my life. Otherwise, had it
been left to mom, she would have got me married within no time, but
I didn’t agree at all. I don’t know what happened in your case. She
said it once, and I relented. Otherwise, I would have been married
ten years ago. Perhaps the ten years of loneliness were there as, after
them, you had to come into my life.”
“But in those ten years, you found God Almighty.”
219 www.inzaar.org
“Yes. Those ten years were not wasted. In fact, they became the most
productive and precious years of my life as, in them, I found God
Almighty, his book, the holy Quran, his last messenger and prophet
PBUH, and the reality of Paradise and Hell. They are the absolute truths
a human being is sent to the world to find and understand.”
“And I only had to find you, and in finding you, I found everything
else. My job was so much easier.”
Isra added laughingly.
“Yes. But I am so sorry what our society has adopted in the name of
Islam is not right. In the name of Islam, rather than adopting what
God Almighty demands, we have adopted practices that have nothing
to do with God. In the name of Islam, we have adopted our own
prejudices and desires instead of following the directions of the Holy
Quran and our holy prophet PBUH. In the name of Islam, we have made
it our mission to build paradise in this world Instead of the Hereafter.
In the name of Islam, we have, rather than cleansing our inner selves,
made it our objective to impose religion on others. Instead of
propagating the real message of Islam to the world, we have adopted
the attitude of hatred towards others. Nothing is Islamic in all of
those actions.”
“But what can we do, Waqar? Unfortunately, we can’t do anything.”
“Yes, you are right. Those responsible for rectifying the situation
wash the utensil from the outside rather than cleaning it from inside.
They don’t even lift a finger on the backbreaking loads but put them
on others’ backs. They put mosquitoes through the sieve and gulp the
camels. To make people their followers, they go travel on land and
sea, and when they succeed, they make their followers twice as liable
220 www.inzaar.org
for Hellfire than they were before. They present a few superficial
things as faith and completely ignore the real education of faith as
presented in the Quran. They sing praises of their ancestors but do
not recognise the people alive today who are the real proponents of
the knowledge of those ancestors.”
“Can’t you do something?”
Isra inquired.
“I cannot do anything. I have, with great difficulty, discovered the
truth through my personal efforts. However, it is a great truth. I have
heard God speaking in the shape of the Quran. I have found the
righteous character of the holy prophet PBUH alive in the Quran. I have
found in that manifested book the lives of those companions of the
holy prophet PBUH that have been described in the scriptures as
establishing God’s kingdom on earth. But to propagate that truth to
others is a gigantic war. It is way beyond me. I wish that God
Almighty gives me a child so I can dedicate him to that task.”
On hearing that, Isra smiled.
“Waqar, a little while ago, you had mentioned noticing a glow in me.
However, it is not my glow; you have given it. That is why I have
brought you here today, to tell you that you are going to become a
dad.”
Waqar was stunned. His prime had passed without hearing that
sentence. He had never expressed his desire to Sonia to avoid making
her sad. Even in the presence of Isra, he had never uttered a sentence
about it. Today, for the first time, talking on the subject, he had
mentioned it without giving it a thought, and the very next moment,
God Almighty had given him the good news that his lifelong wish had
221 www.inzaar.org
been granted.
“Isra, thanks for the most beautiful sentence of my life. You are the
greatest blessing of my life.”
Isra beamed on hearing it.
“I hope you won’t be disappointed if we have a daughter.”
“Why be disappointed? A daughter is a blessing of God. You and my
mom are also someone’s daughters. Aren’t you? It is because of you
two that my universe is illuminated.”
“So, what will be the name of our daughter?”
“Whatever you want. But if we have a son, I have already chosen a
name for him.”
“What is it?”
“His name will be Abdullah.”
“Oh. What a beautiful name. So, it's decided. If we have a son, we will
name him Abdullah.”
‘God willing.’
Waqar had hardly uttered those words when the waiter appeared
with their order. Seeing him, they stopped their discussion.
====================
Joys and laughter came in Waqar’s family with the arrival of Abdullah
like spring after a long winter. The couple were happy, but the
222 www.inzaar.org
happiest was Madam Shamim. Her life had changed completely.
Waqar and Isra used to go to their office, and she was with her
grandson the whole day. All of her ailments and weaknesses had left
her. The innocent little angel, Abdullah, was also closer to the
grandma as he spent the whole day with her.
One day, having returned from work, Waqar spoke to his mother
while they sat on the dining table:
“Isra and I plan to perform Hajj. Will you accompany us? If you do,
we will take Abdullah with us, or else we will leave him with you.”
“Son, I already performed Hajj with your father when we were
young. You took me for Umrah as well. Thank God he let me see his
home on Hajj and Umrah in good health. Now my old bones will not
be able to take the load. So the two of you go and leave Abdullah
with me.”
“Think about it, Mom. Wouldn’t Abdullah bother you?”
Isra questioned.
“How can he? He is closer to me than you. He only sees you at night
and stays with me the whole day. So he will be very happy with me.”
She kissed Abdullah, who was in her lap.
“OK, Mom. Even otherwise, we are not going for long and will return
in two weeks. I hope everything will be OK here, by the grace of God.”
“Absolutely. The two of you go. May God accept your pilgrimage and
presence there.”
223 www.inzaar.org
============

Waqar and Isra performed the Hajj in a state of deep devotion. It was
an extraordinary experience, especially for Isra. Unlike Waqar, it was
her first visit to the Haram, and she was spellbound due to the
spiritual environment all around. Waqar’s presence had especially
affected her feelings. He explained the significance and purpose of
each rite of Hajj. On arrival, the first thing they did was the Umrah.
While they performed Umrah, Waqar explained that Hajj and Umrah
were parables of the war of God’s servants against Satan. Ehram was
a symbol of adopting a life with restrictions while wearing it as even
when free, human beings rise beyond their desires for the sake of
God; circumambulation of Khana-e-Kaaba, called Tawaf, is an
indication of making God the focal point of one’s life and making it
one’s goal like a moth around the flame. Going between the two hills
of Safa and Marwa, called Sayee, was an effort to purify every effort
and struggle for God. Having the head shaved or getting some of the
hair cut on completion of Umrah, also called Halq or Qasr, was giving
oneself in the servitude of God Almighty.
This explanation extended to Hajj as well. Waqar kept explaining the
purpose of every rite of Hajj. Stay in tents in Mina was the first camp
of the servants of God in their war against Satan. Prayers and
supplications in the plain of Arafat was the process of praying and
begging God Almighty for his support in their battle. Muzdalifah was
the last camp before the attack on Satan, and after that, In the plain
of Mina, throwing stones at the three satans, also called Rami Jamar,
symbolized the war against them. After the first day of Rami, and
after having the haircut and sacrificing an animal, most of the
restrictions of Ehram were removed. That sacrifice expressed the
willingness of human beings to give their lives for the cause of God if
need be.
224 www.inzaar.org
============
After Hajj and the stay in Mina, Waqar and Isra were returning after
Rami the second day. As usual, there was a huge crowd. All one could
see was a sea of humans around or a city of tents, where millions
lived. The pilgrims were busy cooking, using gas stoves for the
purpose. Isra noticed it and commented:
“Waqar, those tents are made of fabric. People are using gas stoves
with no fire extinguishers around. God forbid, if the tents catch fire,
it will be a catastrophe. It is windy too, and the crowd is huge.”
“It is our national psyche. People only think about themselves.
Governments also only move when there is an accident. We have not
groomed our nation with education and training. We are not one
billion Muslims; we are a horde of one billion ignorant souls.”
“Yes, you are so right. Perhaps that is why I did not see the spirit of
Hajj that you were elaborating upon. Didn’t you see how people were
pushing and shoving at the Rami and Tawaf?”
“Yes, Isra. We are only taught the apparent rituals. The true soul of
the religion is not taught. That is why when people are throwing
stones at Satan, they are actually implementing his plans.”
Waqar had hardly completed his sentence when there was an
explosion. He turned around to see in that direction. At some
distance, the tents had caught fire. There was a commotion all
around.
Waqar sputtered:
225 www.inzaar.org
“Isra, whatever you were saying has happened. Soon this fire will
spread all around.”
He had not even completed his sentence when people started
running madly to save their lives. He screamed:
“Isra, run or else the people will trample us.”
Isra was shaken. Petrified of that noise and commotion, she started
running, but she was slow. Waqar had to run slow also to be with her
as he was holding her hand.
“Isra, run faster. The fire is spreading.”
Waqar warned her, looking behind.
“The blowing wind had spread the fire fast. The flames were
devouring everything coming in their way. The residents of the tents
were screaming and running to find a safe place. It was turning into
a great calamity.
“I cannot run faster. You go ahead. I will follow you and join you
later.”
“Are you mad? I cannot leave you and run.”
Waqar looked back and saw a human stampede catching them from
behind. He shouted.”
“Isra, get aside. They will crush us.”
He held her hand and tried to drag her aside.
226 www.inzaar.org
They managed to get into a corner. However, a running man shoved
her out of the way. Being a woman, she could not withstand that push
and fell. Waqar’s hand lost its grip on her. The crowd kept running,
trampling over her.
Seeing it, Waqar lost his mind. Using all his strength, he stopped the
running crowd and picked up Isra. He moved her entirely out of the
way and made her sit, supported by a tent.
“Isra was scared witless and was also injured. Waqar shouted:
“Are you OK? Can you walk?”
“No, Waqar. People have run all over my body. My legs are not
moving. I cannot walk anymore.”
She tried to move her legs but screamed in pain. Her leg had probably
been fractured.
Waqar looked around. There was no sign of help from any direction.
Everybody was running to save his life. He looked at the tents. The
fire was spreading. The blowing wind was helping it spread faster,
and the gas cylinders were also exploding from time to time, giving
it further impetus.
“OK. I will move with you in my lap.” Waqar suggested.
“Waqar. Leave me here and go. At least you will be saved.”
“What will I do without you even if I am saved?”
Waqar picked her up in his arms. He looked around. There was fire
on one side and a stampeding crowd on the other.
227 www.inzaar.org
“Waqar, please go for Abdullah’s sake.”
“I place our Abdullah in God’s protection. He will look after him.”
Waqar started running as fast as possible, but his speed had reduced
considerably. Trying to save Isra, he was injured as well. He was
running close to the tents as it was almost definite that he would be
pushed to the ground if he chose the main exit. If that happened,
perhaps he would not be able to save Isra like the last time. He had
not realised that he had engendered themselves further in doing so.
The wind direction was continuously changing. Whichever direction
it took, fire also spread there. Because of the fire, the gas cylinders in
the tent were also exploding from time to time, worsening the
situation.
“Waqar, leave me.”
When Isra saw him panting, she screamed again.
“Not at all, not at any cost.”
Isra looked back. The wind changed direction once again. The flames
were approaching in their direction. Isra looked up and beseeched:
“O Lord, our Abdullah is in your protection now.”
As soon as she uttered those words, there was a massive explosion
in a tent close by. Both fell, and they were in the lap of death the very
next moment.
============
228 www.inzaar.org
Waqar was quiet at the end of his story. Others were quiet too. Naima
was crying. Tears were rolling down Abdullah’s eyes, and Isra’s eyes
were misty too. Only Waqar was at peace.
He patted Abdullah on the shoulder, who sat at his feet.
“Son, Don’t you think I did the right thing by not leaving your mom. I
hope you are not upset about it.”
“No, Dad. You did very well. I am proud of you and also proud of being
your son. You are a great man. Dad, you are truly a great man.”
Abdullah kissed Waqar’s hands and put them on his cheeks.
“Dad, you must have felt a lot of pain.”
Naima asked, wiping her tears.
“No, my girl, That is the real point. Those who live for God do not feel
any pain when they die. As soon as that explosion took place, I was
stunned, and my connection with the world was severed. The very
next moment, the entire scene changed. The angels came and stood
all around me. Every pain, every sorrow and every worry had come
to an end. There was peace and bliss all around. The angels
welcomed me respectfully and with deference. For a moment, I did
not understand what had happened, but the next moment I realised
that the life that God Almighty had promised had started. But you
know, what two questions I asked from the angels first?”
“Let me guess.”
Naima replied. Without waiting for the reply, she replied.
“You would have asked where was mom and what would happen to
229 www.inzaar.org
Abdullah.”
“Oh, my baby is so intelligent. I had actually asked those two
questions in the same order. The angels satisfied me with their reply
that Isra had also been welcomed here.”
“And what did they say about me?”
Abdullah questioned curiously.
“About you, they gave me the special message of God Almighty: Since
you have handed over your son to me, as such, I will help him all his
life. If he values my guidance, he will be assigned the same task that
you wanted.”
“Thanks, Dad. I know whatever I am today is because of you.”
“And whatever I am today is also because of him.”
Saying that, Isra got up, sat on the ground next to Waqar and put her
head on his knees.
It was a strange scene. Abdullah, Naima and Isra were sitting at
Waqar’s feet. Waqar sat on his seat amongst them with head bowed
and tears of gratitude flowing down his cheeks. All of them were
quiet, but their hearts sang hymns praising the merciful God. There
was a pin drop silence all around, but that silence was also praising
God in its solaced voice. Everything from heaven to earth in its
language of silence sang praises of the one and only God who had
imprisoned everything that caused pain, grief, sorrow and hurt in
Hell and had provided the bounties and comforts for his faithful
servants in Paradise.
230 www.inzaar.org
============

After a while, Waqar’s voice boomed, breaking the silence.
“All of us had different tests, and we did well in them. That is why our
Lord has rewarded us, and it does not look appropriate for the
rewarded to sit on the floor like you all. So please take your seats.”
The three of them got up and sat on the regal chairs. Naima, while
sitting, addressed Waqar.
“But you know Dad, Abdullah was your carbon copy in the previous
world.”
“My son was better than me. God Almighty has blessed him much
more than me. You know why, Naima?”
“Come on, Dad.”
Abdullah protested, but Naima interjected.
“No, Dad. Please go on.”
“I was satisfied after finding the truth I had discovered. I moulded
myself according to that truth and was contented with my success.
But my son was not like that.”
Waqar explained, looking lovingly at his son, who sat there, head
bowed.
“Abdullah was not content with any level of Paradise. He had the
spirit and the will to keep moving ahead. He always considered
himself the lowest but kept his thoughts and action the highest.”
231 www.inzaar.org
“Am I right, Naima?”
“Yes, Dad. He was like that. He always hid his inner personality and
acted with humility. But the love of God and the desire for Paradise
was the strongest in him. To achieve that, he always strived to make
his actions and personality from good to better to best, but still, I
could not know him well in the previous world. Now that I see it, I
realise how outstanding was his inner self, as it reflects on his face
now.”
Naima replied, looking at Abdullah, whose face was more radiant
than all. Then, Waqar looked at Abdullah’s bright face and added:
“It was because of this outstanding personality of my son that God
Almighty assigned him the task of taking his message to others. The
fact that he passed on the real religion of God to others without
additions, deletions or modifications became the reason for him to
be placed on such heights. Setting aside his every prejudice, desire,
spirit and preference, he discovered the faith as left behind by our
Holy Prophet and Last Messenger PBUH, derived its invitation of faith
and righteousness from the glorious Quran, and then with all his
might, took its call, logic, reasons, instructions and requirements to
others. In doing so, he did not care for any opposition or benefit and
was neither scared nor impressed by anyone. On the call of Abdullah,
innumerable souls reached Paradise. That is exactly the feat that led
him to such an exalted status.”
When Waqar had finished, Abdullah exclaimed:
“No, Dad. None of that was because of me. It was only and only the
blessing of God Almighty that he made his entity, his book and his
Messenger PBUH most vital for me. It is all his benefaction and
232 www.inzaar.org
blessing.
Abdullah, as always, said what he truly felt was correct.
“Yes. Nobody can deny that. Everything good is in God. Just think
about it, if there were no God or his blessings, my and Isra’s story
would have had such a tragic end. In fact, without God, the story of
each of us would have ended in a minor or major tragedy. And that is
because there is no greater tragedy than death.
As Waqar finished, Naima agreed with him and added:
“Yes, Dad. Had there been no God and his blessings, human beings,
even after getting everything, would have gone from the world,
totally deprived. It is his blessings that he created us and gave us a
chance to achieve these heights in Paradise. But Dad, I have a
question….”
Naima had a question in her mind. Before Waqar could answer,
Abdullah laughingly quipped:
“Dad, don’t let her ask questions. She will devour your brain.”
“I am not asking you. I am asking my Dad.”
Naima chuckled. Waqar, siding with her, said:
“You can ask anything you want, my girl.”
Encouraged by him, Naima started slowly:
“Dad, why is it that Abdullah is your son, I am his wife, mom is your
wife, You are Waqar, mom is Isra, he is Abdullah, and I am Naima?
233 www.inzaar.org
Why were we who we were in the previous world? Why were our
destinies the way they were? You and mom died without reaching
old age. Why did our stories end the way they did? And, why did the
incomplete stories remain incomplete?”
It was a plethora of questions Naima had asked. Rather than saying
something, Waqar looked at Abdullah helplessly, who exclaimed:
“Didn’t I tell you, Dad? Don’t give her a chance.
At that, everybody laughed loudly. When they stopped, Waqar
replied Naima:
“Let me tell you the easiest way to find answers, daughter. Now that
you are in Paradise, you may ask these questions from the entity who
made that examination hall.”
“But how to gain the courage to say something in his presence. Who
can face him?”
“Nobody can. Who can dare to stand on his legs in his presence? Only
those who he blesses, only those….”
Saying that, Waqar looked at Abdullah. Both had the good fortune of
meeting the Lord.
“However, I hope my questions will be answered by God Almighty
somehow.”
Your questions will be definitely answered, but please arrange to
feed us too.”
Abdullah drew Naima’s attention. Naima got up right away.
234 www.inzaar.org
Sorry. Dad’s story was such that I forgot everything else. Let’s go and
eat. Mom, would you please come with me?”
Naima answered, extending her hand towards Isra.
When Isra held Naima’s hand and started moving ahead. Abdullah
also came from the other side, held Isra’s other hand, and teased:
“She is my mother first, yours after.”
“No, now she is mine first.”
“No, mine.”
Isra resolved the tussle:
I am a mother to both of you.”
Busy talking, the three of them moved ahead. Seeing them with a
smile on his face, Waqar looked towards the sky.
The black sky glittered with the stars. The stars were of different
colours. They formed different groups, but all had beautiful designs
and formations. It was a small part of Paradise where successful
human beings had to live forever. With the feeling that Waqar
himself was one of those successful, his eyes also glittered with tears,
and he could only utter:
“O’ Lord of everything, thanks for giving everything.”
He looked at the sky for some time. Then, suddenly, a desire came to
his mind, that of seeing the copy of the glorious Quran that he used
235 www.inzaar.org
to read in the previous world, and he had carried it with him to the
Hajj where he had died.
Then he laughed at his thought.
“How can that copy survive?”
He looked at others. The three of them had gone ahead, busy talking.
He was about to follow them when a servant appeared and submitted
respectfully:
“Master, a while ago, an angel came and gave something that
belonged to you. He had advised to hand it over to you when you
were alone.”
The servant handed over something, holding it with both hands. He
was stunned to see it. It was the same copy of the glorious Quran he
had kept with him in the previous world, in the same condition as he
had seen it before his death. Half believing it, he took it from the
servant. He wanted to ask him something, but on second thought,
kept quiet. The servant returned after seeking his permission
respectfully. Waqar looked at the sky:
“You are before everything. Nothing is before you. You are after
everything. Nothing is after you. You are hidden everywhere, but you
are apparent everywhere. Your knowledge encompasses everything,
and you know everything before it comes into being.”
Waqar looked down after saying that. Then, unintentionally, he
opened the glorious Quran. In front of him was a portion of Surah
Aal-e-Imran that he had highlighted sometime in the past:
236 www.inzaar.org
(O People) Hasten towards forgiveness from your Lord and a Paradise
as vast as the heavens and the earth, prepared for the righteous. (They
are) those who donate in prosperity and adversity, control their anger
and pardon others. And God loves those who do good. (They are) those
who, upon committing a shameful act or wrong themselves, remember
God and seek forgiveness and do not knowingly persist in sin—and who
forgives sins except God? Their reward is forgiveness from their Lord
and gardens under which rivers flow, staying there forever. How
excellent is the reward for those who work (righteous deeds).
(Al-Quran Chapter 3 Verses 133-136)
Waqar finished reciting the verses of the holy Quran and uttered
spontaneously:
“My Lord, everything you said proved to be true. What a magnificent
reward for those who worked.”
Having said so, he closed the glorious Quran, pressed it on his chest, and
brimming with gratitude, moved towards his family.
============
237 www.inzaar.org
Popular Books by Abu Yahya
When Life Begins
English Translation of Abu Yahya Famous book
“Jab Zindagi Shuru Ho Gee”.
An unforgettable tale, A Life Changing story
God Speaks
Greatness of Quran narrated as an interesting
story.
By That Time
“By That Time” is the English translation of the
famous Urdu novel titled “Qasam Us Waqt Ki” by
Abu Yahya.
Incomplete Story
A story to illuminate every aching heart with
hope